

===== G20_2024_1_Abstract =====

page 2:
2 
 
 
Abstract 
The G20 is an important international forum to promote the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. A major obstacle to sustainable development 
worldwide that has so far received little attention are negative international spillover 
effects. These are undesirable external economic, social, environmental, and security 
effects from a country’s actions which undermine other countries’ efforts to achieve the 
SDGs. Negative spillovers may reinforce existing international injustices and divergences 
between countries of different income categories and regions. Assessments show an 
inverse relationship between domestic SDG progress and the generation of negative 
spillovers, with high income countries (many G20 countries) having a better performance 
on the SDGs domestically (higher SDG Index scores), but also more negative impacts 
abroad (lower International Spillover Index scores). All countries, and especially the G20 
given their combined economic weight, must better understand, monitor and manage their 
spillovers to allow all countries to meet the SDGs. Curbing negative international 
spillovers requires multilateral solutions, especially across resource-rich and high income 
consumer countries. Given the global nature of this challenge, the G20 is a suitable forum 
for discussing solutions. This policy brief brings three recommendations to the G20:  
1) Monitor spillover effects, set impact targets, and support statistical capacity; 2) 
Establish inclusive processes that bring together stakeholders to co-develop multilateral 
policies and partnerships;  
3) Incorporate spillover effects in the G20’s 2030 Agenda Action Plan.  
The G20’s immediate aim should be to build momentum for a successful Summit of 
the Future by restoring trust through high-level policy discussions on international 
spillovers, which have the potential to accelerate the SDG progress. Moreover, the G20 
should initiate a structured agenda for upcoming G20 presidencies to tackle spillovers.



===== G20_2024_2_Diagnosis_of_the_Issue_Addressing_Negative_Spillover_Effects_for_SDG_Achievement =====

page 3:
3 
 
 
Diagnosis of the issue: Addressing negative spillover effects for SDG 
achievement 
 
The adoption of the 2030 Agenda provided a shared pathway towards sustainable 
development via the achievement of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. 
At the Agenda’s midpoint, however, the world is substantially off track. This is not just 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic and armed conflicts, but due to major structural obstacles 
that cannot be solved by individual countries. Therefore, at the SDG Summit in 2023, 
heads of state called for accelerated global action towards sustainable development. This 
year’s United Nations’ Summit of the Future should follow up on the SDG Summit, 
delivering essential multilateral reforms.  
A critical, yet underappreciated, factor in achieving the SDGs is addressing “spillover 
effects”. Namely, how a country’s actions affect other countries’ efforts to achieve the 
SDGs. These externalities, or spillovers, must be understood, monitored, and managed 
effectively through actions by the countries causing them and through international 
partnerships. The G20, as a high-level forum bringing together major economies, the 
European Union and (as of last year) the African Union, is ideally placed to address this 
issue. Since 2015, the G20 has committed itself to implement sustainable development, 
among others by adopting regular 2030 Agenda Action Plans. The G20 is therefore the 
right forum for overcoming structural obstacles towards the SDGs such as negative 
spillover effects.  
The Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) leads in measuring these 
cross-border effects through the International Spillovers Index, included in its annual 
Sustainable Development Report. The latest assessment suggests an inverse relationship 
between SDG progress and the generation of spillovers, with high per capita income

page 4:
4 
 
 
countries such as Germany having a better SDG performance domestically (higher SDG 
Index score), but more negative impacts abroad (lower International Spillover Index 
score). On the opposite end, India and African Union countries have the lowest SDG 
performance, but the highest spillover performance, meaning that they cause the least 
negative international effects (Figure 1). Addressing spillovers thus becomes crucial for 
ensuring that domestic progress in achieving the SDGs is not realized via externalizing 
negative effects abroad.  
 
 
FIGURE 1. SDG Index scores vs. International Spillover Index scores of G20 members 
(performance: 0 worst – 100 best)  
Source: Authors’ work based on Sachs et al. (2023)  
 
Spillover effects stem from cross-border pollution flows, economic and financial 
flows, multilateralism and security effects, and environmental and social impacts

page 5:
5 
 
 
embodied in international trade. The latter arises from the globalization of value chains, 
where products consumed in one country cause social and environmental impacts along 
their production processes, which are not considered in the consuming country’s national 
statistics. High income countries, given their consumption levels, are particularly 
responsible for trade-related spillovers. Accounting for these spillovers becomes crucial 
for an accurate assessment of contributions towards sustainable development. For 
instance, in some G20 economies (e.g., Germany, France, the UK), offshore GHG 
emissions are more than 40 percent of their total GHG footprint (Figure 2).  
 
 
FIGURE 2. Domestic vs. Spillover GHG emissions in G20 members (tonnes/capita) 
Source: Authors’ work based on the Crippa et al. (2022), Forster et al. (2021), and Release 
057 of the GLORIA database (Lenzen et al. 2021), constructed in the Global MRIO Lab 
(Lenzen et al. 2017).

page 6:
6 
 
 
While assessing a country’s consumption’s global impacts has been challenging, trade-
related spillovers are now measured through Consumption Based Accounting (CBA; 
Wood et al., 2020). Measuring spillovers via CBA requires detailed data on trade flows 
between economic sectors within and among countries. It also requires data on the social 
and environmental impacts happening along global supply chains. Multi-Regional Input-
Output (MRIO) databases and models are currently the standard method for CBA 
(Lenzen, 2008). Yet, there are significant data gaps, particularly in low and middle income 
countries.  
Ultimately, curbing negative spillovers requires multilateral solutions, especially 
between resource-rich and labor-rich countries with high income consumer countries. 
Given the global nature of this challenge, the G20 is a suitable platform for tackling 
international spillovers. This policy brief outlines three recommendations for G20 
leaders:  
1) Monitor spillover effects, set impact targets, and support statistical capacity; 
2) Establish inclusive processes that bring together stakeholders to co-develop 
multilateral policies and partnerships;  
3) Incorporate spillover effects in the G20’s 2030 Agenda Action Plan.  
 
The G20’s immediate aim should be to build momentum for a successful Summit of 
the Future by restoring trust through high-level policy discussions on international 
spillover effects, which have the potential to accelerate progress on the SDGs. Moreover, 
the G20 should initiate a structured agenda for upcoming G20 presidencies to tackle 
spillovers.



===== G20_2024_3_Recommendations =====

page 7:
7 
 
 
Recommendations 
 
1) Monitor spillover effects, set impact targets, and support statistical capacity 
Integrating CBA into national statistics and SDG monitoring enhances the visibility of 
spillover effects and the understanding of global SDG performance. Several countries 
(Finland, Iceland, and the Netherlands) have incorporated CBA into their Voluntary 
National Reviews (VNRs) (Finnish Government, 2020; Government of Iceland, 2023; 
Kingdom of the Netherlands, 2022). Eurostat’s annual SDGs monitoring report also 
features a dedicated section on spillover effects, including indicators on CO₂ emissions 
and cropland footprints of EU members (Eurostat, 2023). The G20 should lead in 
monitoring and reporting international spillovers, setting a global example.  
G20 countries should also track these effects against time-bound quantitative targets 
to hold themselves accountable for mitigating negative spillovers. Targets for trade-
related spillovers should cover environmental and social impacts linked to global value 
chains, such as GHG emissions, air pollution, resource depletion (e.g., material 
footprints), and labor exploitation (e.g., modern slavery and fatal accidents at work). For 
instance, according to Malik et al. (2023), the EU’s consumption was linked to 500,000 
cases of modern slavery and 1,200 fatal accidents at work abroad in 2018. The G20, given 
their economic importance, should take the lead in elaborating consumption-based targets 
to tackle environmental and social spillover effects.  
The above hinges on having accurate data for MRIO databases and consumption-based 
accounting. Hence, a key obstacle in producing high-quality spillovers assessments is the 
lack of statistical capacity to produce up-to-date data on economic transactions and social 
and environmental impacts associated with productive activities. This is the case with 
many producing countries, which is where most of the social and environmental impacts

page 8:
8 
 
 
associated with trade-related spillovers take place. Therefore, to tackle spillovers 
effectively, G20 countries must assist low and middle income countries in strengthening 
their statistical capacity. This is consistent with SDG target 17.19, which calls for 
supporting statistical capacity building in developing countries and tracks, via indicator 
17.19.1, financial assistance to developing countries for this purpose. Additionally, the 
G20 should support the production of Geospatial Information Service (GIS) data and 
remote sensing technologies, which offer tremendous opportunities to refine the 
granularity, timeliness, and quality of SDG data. For example, GIS data is used by the 
World Resources Institute’s Global Forest Watch initiative to track global deforestation 
and its causes (Curtis et al., 2018).  
 
2) Establish inclusive processes that bring together stakeholders to co-develop 
multilateral policies and partnerships  
Many high income countries have implemented policies to tackle negative spillovers, 
such as national regulations and due diligence laws to address social issues in global value 
chains (e.g., child labour), tackle deforestation, and adopt carbon border adjustment 
mechanisms. However, these important initiatives have been unilateral policy instruments 
that, largely, have not considered perspectives from the affected economies, potentially 
resulting in trade-offs (e.g., higher unemployment and poverty). The G20 should, 
therefore, create and support new inclusive platforms and partnerships to ensure that 
production processes include robust safeguards to protect the environment and human 
rights. Voluntary Partnership Agreements (VPAs) are one such example. Recognizing that 
wood consumed by the EU often comes from regions with poor forest management, 
illegal logging, and degradation of primary forests, VPAs are negotiated by the EU and 
timber-exporting countries to only allow legally produced imports. Then, timber legality

page 9:
9 
 
 
assurance systems push exporting countries to improve their forest management 
practices, promoting sustainable forestry (EU FLEGT Facility, 2009). The Just Energy 
Transition Partnerships (JETPs) are another example of new forms of international 
collaboration. JETPs provide a blend of financing instruments, including concessional 
loans, grants, and guaranteed private funds, to support countries’ decarbonization efforts, 
especially those that are dependent on coal (European Commission, 2021). The first JETP, 
launched at the COP-26, mobilizes $8.5 billion to 1) replace coal with renewable energy; 
2) expand electric vehicles use; and 3) establish a green hydrogen industry in South 
Africa. The partnership mobilizes stakeholders to facilitate an energy transition, but it will 
be important that implementation of the JETP addresses the social consequences of 
decarbonization (e.g., coal miners’ unemployment; Pilling, 2022). The G20 should 
endorse and expand such initiatives, ensuring their effectiveness. The JETP model could 
also be applied to land and ocean management. Beyond these two examples for voluntary 
partnerships, it is important to establish platforms for exchange and peer learning on the 
design of policy tools between countries causing and affected by spillover effects. The 
G20, serving as a high-level forum, is well positioned to facilitate dialogue on spillover 
effects. Leveraging its various working groups (such as the working groups on 
Development, Trade and Investment, Employment, and Climate and Environmental 
Sustainability), the G20 should lead a dedicated agenda to curb negative spillover effects. 
Joint workshops among the relevant G20 working groups should be a first step towards 
developing a structured agenda for upcoming G20 presidencies.  
 
3) Incorporate spillover effects in the G20's 2030 Agenda Action Plan In 2016, 
during the Chinese presidency, the G20 adopted its first “Action Plan on the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development”. In the Hamburg Update (2017), a list of collective actions

page 10:
10 
 
 
and a Voluntary Peer Learning Mechanism (VPLM) were set up to share experiences and 
lessons learned. The Osaka Update (2019) highlighted the need for multi-stakeholder 
dialogue and continued the peer learning mechanism in the Action Plan. The 2023 Action 
Plan, under the Indian presidency, called for action in three key areas: digital 
transformation, gender equality, and just transitions.  
Developed within the Development Working Group, the Action Plans aim to enhance 
policy coherence and coordination across all G20 work streams for the SDGs 
achievement. Thus, it seems logical to integrate the issue of spillover effects into the next 
Action Plan update. Recognizing spillovers' significance in either hindering or advancing 
the achievement of the SDGs, the issue should be featured prominently in the high-level 
principles section. Moreover, the updated Action Plan should specify concrete measures 
to address negative spillovers such as strengthening statistical capacities and promoting 
dialogue and peer learning mechanisms on the design of policy tools. Addressing 
spillover effects in the Action Plan of the Brazilian G20 presidency’s meeting of 
development ministers would be an important input into the discussions leading up to the 
UN Summit of the Future in September 2024.



===== G20_2024_4_Scenario_of_Outcome_In_Support_of_a_Successful_Summit_of_the_Future =====

page 11:
11 
 
 
Scenario of outcome: In support of a successful Summit of the Future 
The Summit of the Future is this year’s most important multilateral summit and is 
meant to follow up on the “what” identified in the 2023 SDG Summit (i.e., accelerated 
action on the SDGs) by delivering the “how” of multilateral reforms (i.e., actionable 
strategies). The Summit of the Future needs to demonstrate that international cooperation 
is possible and effective in tackling current global challenges, especially amid lacklustre 
SDG progress, widespread conflict, and growing polarization and authoritarian trends 
worldwide. The Summit’s aim is to adopt an ambitious, concise, and action-oriented Pact 
for the Future. There is consensus that the pact should contribute to strengthening 
confidence in multilateralism, especially on the part of low and middle income countries.  
The G20 needs to use the action-oriented momentum of this Summit to accelerate the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda by reducing spillover effects and increasing global 
policy coherence, a lever to tackle slowing and counterproductive effects on the SDGs. 
The G20 should use the G20 process during Brazil’s presidency to co-create international 
answers to spillover effects, including the adoption of the three recommendations 
described in this policy brief.  
Under a positive scenario, the G20 (especially through its Development Working 
Group) will be able to foster a high-level policy dialogue on the importance of 
international spillover effects as an important factor to accelerate the achievement of the 
SDGs. Under this scenario, the G20 will have included international spillovers in its 
updated 2030 Agenda Action Plan and agreed on concrete actions to improve the 
monitoring of spillover effects and on peer learning mechanisms to co-design appropriate 
policies to address spillover effects. A successful meeting of development ministers in 
July will provide important momentum for the Summit of the Future, being an 
opportunity that should not be missed.

