

===== GLOBAL_SGD2023_1_Executive_Summary =====

page 7:
vi   
Executive Summary
At the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, all of the SDGs are seriously off track. From 2015 to 2019, the world 
made some progress on the SDGs, although this was already vastly insufficient to achieve the goals. Since the 
outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 and other simultaneous crises, SDG progress has stalled globally. In most high-
income countries (HICs), automatic stabilizers, emergency expenditure, and recovery plans mitigated the impacts 
of these multiple crises on socioeconomic outcomes. Only limited progress is being made on the environmental 
and biodiversity goals, including SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), SDG 13 (Climate Action), 
SDG 14 (Life Below Water), and SDG 15 (Life on Land), even in countries that are largely to blame for the climate and 
biodiversity crises. The disruptions caused by these multiple crises has aggravated fiscal-space issues in low-income 
countries (LICs) and in lower-middle income countries (LMICs), leading to a reversal in progress on several goals and 
indicators. Despite this alarming development, the SDGs are still achievable. None of their objectives are beyond our 
reach. The world is off track, but that is all the more reason to double down on the SDGs.
At their core, the SDGs are an investment agenda: it is critical that UN Member States adopt and implement 
the SDG Stimulus and support a comprehensive reform of the global financial architecture. To achieve the 
SDGs the world must both alter its current investment patterns and increase the overall volume of investments. 
The Stimulus’ urgent objective is to address the chronic shortfall of international SDG financing confronting the 
LICs and LMICs, and to ramp up financing flows by at least US$500 billion by 2025. This year’s report also highlights 
six priorities to reform the complex system of public and private finance that channels the world’s savings to its 
investments – what is known as the Global Financial Architecture: 
1.	 Greatly increase funding to national and subnational governments and private businesses, especially in LICs 
and LMICs, to carry out needed SDG investments. 
2.	 Revise the credit rating system and debt sustainability metrics to facilitate long-term sustainable development. 
3.	 Revise liquidity structures for LICs and LMICs, especially regarding sovereign debts, to forestall self-fulfilling 
banking and balance-of-payments crises; 
4.	 Create ambitious, internationally-agreed upon criteria for sustainable finance that are mandatory for all public 
financial institutions. 
5.	 Align private business investment flows with the SDGs, through improved national planning, regulation, 
reporting, and oversight. 
6.	 Reform current institutional frameworks and develop new mechanisms to improve the quality and speed of 
deployment of international cooperation, and monitor progress in an open and timely manner.
All countries, poorer and richer alike, should use the half-way momentum to self-critically review and revise 
their national SDG strategies and commit to strengthening multilateralism. National governments must 
ensure both domestic implementation of the SDGs, including the reduction of negative spillovers, and international 
implementation – by building a global governance and financial architecture that delivers the SDGs. Building 
on SDSN’s global survey of government efforts and commitment to the SDGs and third-party data, we highlight 
major differences across countries, including G20 countries, in their SDG strategies and commitment. Achieving 
the SDGs requires global cooperation guided by the United Nations Charter. In 2022, the United Nations Secretary-
General appointed a High-Level Advisory Board (HLAB) on effective multilateralism, with a mandate to develop a 
list of concrete, actionable recommendations to improve international cooperation and advance the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. We introduce in the report this year a pilot index of countries commitment to and 
support of multilateralism under the UN Charter.

page 8:
vii   
Executive Summary
Further investment is needed in statistical capacity and data literacy to support long-term pathways for key 
SDG transformations. At the halfway mark to 2030, there remains a great deal of work to be done to improve the 
data and methods underlying the SDG indicator framework. Evidence suggests that since 2016 there has been only 
limited progress and convergence in countries’ statistical capacity, including LICs and LMICs, and that international 
funding for data and statistics fell between 2019 and 2021. Also, in an information-rich and post-truth environment, 
citizens and decision-makers need knowledge and tools to transform data and science into evidence, actions, and 
long-term policies. According to major international studies, few teenagers can differentiate between a fact and an 
opinion. As underlined during the United Nations World Data Forum 2023 and in the 27 April Hangzhou Declaration, 
investing in statistical capacity, science, and data literacy are important priorities for achieving the SDGs. 
The SDSN and its global network will double-down on efforts to implement the SDGs by 2030 and beyond. 
The SDSN was created in 2012, soon after the Rio+20 Summit, to mobilize the world’s universities, think tanks, 
and national laboratories on behalf of the SDGs. SDSN’s mission was fourfold: (i) scholarly research, (ii) educational 
innovation and partnerships, (iii) convening power, and (iv) outreach to the public. We are proud of our efforts 
since 2012 in these four areas. The SDSN is now a global network of more than 1,900 member organizations, mainly 
universities, organized in 53 national and regional chapters. Via science-based pathways and analytics, the SDSN 
supports discussions on SDG implementation at the global, regional, and national levels. These are available on the 
newly set up, open-access, SDG Transformation Center Portal. All UN Member States and UN agencies can count on 
the continued efforts and energies of the SDSN around the world to support all governments, businesses, and civil 
society in embracing and aligning with the SDGs on sustainable development.



===== GLOBAL_SGD2023_2_How_to_Achieve_the_SDGs_The_SDSN_Framework =====

page 13:
2   
Overview
1.	 General Assembly Economic and Social Council, Progress towards the 
Sustainable Development Goals: Towards a Rescue Plan for People and 
Planet, Report of the Secretary-General, Special Edition, May 2023. 
https://hlpf.un.org/sites/default/files/2023-04/SDG%20Progress%20
Report%20Special%20Edition.pdf
2.	 United Nations Secretary-General’s SDG Stimulus to Deliver Agenda 2030, 
Feb 2023. https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/
uploads/2023/02/SDG-Stimulus-to-Deliver-Agenda-2030.pdf
This statement, issued by Members of the Leadership 
Council of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions 
Network (SDSN), builds on the work of the SDSN’s 
Secretariat and its global programs, as well as the work of 
its 1,900 member institutions, spanning all world regions. 
The grim reality is that at the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, 
the SDGs are far off track. At the global level, averaging 
across countries, not a single SDG is currently projected to 
be met by 2030, with the poorest countries struggling the 
most. And global cooperation has ebbed as geopolitical 
tensions have risen. In response to this situation, United 
Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has urged 
world leaders to come together at the 2023 SDG Summit 
in September to deliver a “Rescue Plan for People and 
Planet”.1 SDSN offers the following recommendations 
to accelerate progress over the remaining seven years 
to 2030, and to set even more ambitious targets to be 
achieved by 2050 under the SDG framework.
As the world’s nations prepare to meet in September to 
review the progress the world has made so far towards 
achieving the SDGs, at the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, 
SDSN emphasizes six areas for immediate action. 
I.	 Most urgently, UN Member States should adopt an 
SDG Stimulus, to close the massive financing gap 
faced by many developing economies. As called for by 
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres,2 
the SDG Stimulus plan has five main components:
1.	 Increased funding from the multilateral develop-
ment banks (MDBs) and public development banks 
(PDBs) to low- and middle-income countries, linked 
to investments in the SDGs;
2.	 Enhancement of relief for countries facing debt 
distress;
3.	 Expansion of liquidity by the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF) and major central banks;
4.	 Empowerment and expansion of the specialized global 
funds; and
5.	 Expansion of private philanthropy with a focus on ultra-
high-net-worth individuals.
II.	 UN Member States must endorse a deep and overdue 
reform of the global financial architecture. SDSN 
identifies six priorities for this reform:
1.	 Greatly increased funding for national and 
subnational governments and private businesses in 
the emerging economies, especially the low-income 
countries (LICs) and lower-middle-income countries 
(LMICs), to carry out needed SDG actions;
2.	 Revision of the credit-rating system and debt-
sustainability metrics to facilitate long-term 
sustainable development;
3.	 Revision of the liquidity structures for LICs and 
LMICs, especially regarding sovereign debt, to 
forestall self-fulfilling banking and balance-of-
payments crises;
4.	 Creation of ambitious, internationally-agreed 
criteria for sustainable finance that are mandatory 
for all public financial institutions in high-income 
countries (HICs), middle-income countries (MICs), 
and LICs alike.
5.	 Alignment of private business investment flows 
in all countries with the SDGs, through improved 
national planning, regulation, reporting, and 
oversight. 
6.	 A reform of current institutional frameworks and 
development of new and innovative mechanisms 
to improve the quality and speed of deployment of 
international cooperation, and the monitoring of 
progress in an open and timely manner.
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 14:
Overview
3   
III.	 All UN Member States should adopt long-term 
sustainable development pathways that provide 
a stepwise and medium- to long-term approach to 
guide their sustainable development policies, not 
only to 2030 but to 2050, with particular focus on 
gender equality, social inclusion, and the principal 
of ‘leave no one behind’. We are facing a long-term 
set of challenges: resolving them must be the global 
priority for a generation to come. SDSN recommends 
that national pathways should include six key 
transformations:3
1.	 Universal quality education and innovation-based 
economy: a massive increase in investments in 
quality education and in science and technology 
innovation systems;
2.	 Universal health access and coverage: an expansion 
of health coverage to ensure universal access to 
both preventative and curative services;
3.	 Zero-carbon energy systems: the transition by 2050 
of energy systems to net-zero emissions; 
4.	 Sustainable ecosystems, sustainable agriculture, and 
climate resilience: the transition to sustainable land 
use, healthy diets, and resilience to ongoing climate 
change; 
5.	 Sustainable cities: urban infrastructure and services 
to ensure productive, safe, inclusive, and healthful 
cities for a world that will be around 70 percent 
urbanized in 2050; 
6.	 Transformation to universal digital access and 
services: actions by governments at all levels to 
ensure universal access to digital services including 
online payments, finance, telemedicine, online 
education, and others, while ensuring privacy and 
online safety. 
3.	 Sachs, J.D., Schmidt-Traub, G., Mazzucato, M. et al. Six Transformations 
to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Nat Sustain 2, 805–814 
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41893-019-0352-9 
IV.	 All UN Member States should present, at regular 
intervals, their national SDG frameworks in the form 
of Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs). To date, 188 
of the 193 UN Member States have already presented 
VNRs. Five countries (Haiti, Myanmar, South Sudan, 
the United States, and Yemen) have yet to do so, and 
should prepare to do so with urgency.
V.	 All UN Member States should recommit to peaceful 
cooperation, in the service of the SDGs and all other 
multilateral agreements. Current geopolitical tensions 
are hindering SDG achievement and diverting 
financial and human resources away from sustainable 
development. Global spending on armaments, 
estimated at US$2.2 trillion in 2022, dwarfs financing 
for the SDGs and climate change. SDSN calls on 
all nations to renounce violence, live within the 
United Nations Charter, and settle conflicts through 
diplomacy, especially through the UN Security Council. 
VI.	 UN Member States should commit to accelerating 
SDG progress to 2030, and to setting even more 
ambitious SDG targets to 2050, incorporating the 
recent Kunming-Montreal Biodiversity Framework and 
the High Seas Treaty.
The report that follows offers SDSN’s update on the state 
of the SDGs at their mid-point, highlighting the growing 
dangers of adverse environmental, social, and economic 
“tipping points” and identifying key ways that the global 
community can and should accelerate SDG progress. 
1. The SDSN Framework

page 15:
4   
Introduction
The SDGs are facing strong headwinds. Despite significant 
efforts in some places, national governments on all 
continents have fallen short in integrating the SDGs 
into national policies and public investments. Moreover, 
societal polarization, populism, and growing geopolitical 
conflict are hindering the global cooperation needed 
to achieve the SDGs. Civil society, including academic 
institutions, is becoming more constrained in the midst of 
intensifying political tensions. The international financial 
architecture is failing to channel global savings to SDG 
investments at the needed pace and scale. 
We emphasize that achieving the SDGs rests on five pillars 
of good governance:
1.	 Preparing long-term SDG pathways to guide public 
policy; 
2.	 Ensuring SDG financing at the necessary scale and 
timing; 
3.	 Promoting global cooperation and reducing 
geopolitical conflict and tension; 
4.	 Supporting innovation to broaden social inclusion and 
environmental sustainability;
5.	 Regular reporting on SDG progress and performance.
The SDGs are not only a public policy framework; they are 
an ethical imperative. They are grounded in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, which celebrates its 75th 
anniversary this year. The SDGs are based on its core 
premises; that “All human beings are born free and equal in 
dignity and rights … and should act towards one another 
in a spirit of brotherhood,” and that “it is essential to promote 
the development of friendly relations between nations.” 
As the Universal Declaration makes clear, and the SDGs 
make explicit, social justice and sustainable development 
require the full realization of the rights of all people. This 
includes equality of opportunities for girls and women 
(SDG 5), respect for the rights and voice of Indigenous 
peoples around the world, and a much larger role for 
young people, who will face the consequences of our (in)
actions throughout the 21st century. 
The UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network 
(SDSN) is dedicated to finding and amplifying practical 
solutions to achieve the SDGs and closely-related 
global goals (such as the Paris climate agreement and 
the Kunming-Montreal Biodiversity Framework). We 
emphasize that all these global goals are interrelated 
and must be achieved together. Members of the SDSN 
Leadership Council offer the following assessments and 
recommendations to the UN Member States, the United 
Nations Agencies, international finance institutions, 
business, and civil society, based on more than a decade 
of research, measurement, advising, and partnerships 
across the world. 
4.	 Hansen, James et al. 2002. Earth’s Energy Imbalance and Climate 
Response Time. http:/www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/mailings/2022/
EarthEnergyImbalance.22December2022.pdf
Dire shortfalls in meeting the SDGs 
The SDGs are seriously off track (Figure 1.1). SDG progress 
was already very slow in the five years to 2020. According 
to the annual SDG Index, global achievement of the SDGs 
rose only slightly, from 64 percent in 2015 to 66 percent 
in 2019 – far too slowly to meet the goals by 2030, 
and with highly uneven progress within and between 
countries. Then with the onset of the pandemic, progress 
stopped. As of 2022, the global SDG Index is below 67%. 
At current trends, based on simple projections, there is a 
risk that the gap in SDG outcomes between HICs and LICs 
will be wider in 2030 (29 points) than it was in 2015 (28 
points). This means that we are at risk of losing a decade 
of progress towards convergence globally (Figure 1.2). 
The multiple geopolitical crises in the world today will no 
doubt place further obstacles on the path to 2030. If we 
look at each of the 17 individual SDGs, not a single SDG is 
projected to be met at the global level.
The world is also seriously off track to meet the Paris 
agreement climate targets and SDG 13 (Figure 1.3). 
Global warming as of 2022 stood at 1.2°C, with warming 
continuing at more than 0.3°C per decade.4 At this rate, 
the likelihood of overshooting 1.5°C, even within a 
decade, is very strong. According to the UNEP Emissions 
Gap Report 2022, current policies put the world on track 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 16:
Dire shortfalls in meeting the SDGs 
5   
to reaching a disastrous 2.8°C warming by 2100.5 Current 
Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) targets, if 
implemented, would still lead to around 2.4°C warming 
by 2100. Even taking the net-zero pledges of many 
countries into account, best-case scenarios given current 
pledges would lead to around 1.8°C warming by 2100. 
Biodiversity targets (SDG 15 and targets agreed under the 
CBD) are also at grave risk. All dimensions of biodiversity, 
including species abundance, species diversity, and 
the functioning of ecosystems, are under threat. It has 
been announced that the current loss of species rate 
is 1,000–10,000 times more than the natural extinction 
rate. A combination of land-use change (e.g., dramatic 
increases of tropical deforestation), global warming, and 
pollution are driving more and more species, including 
entire families and orders of species, towards mass 
extinction. At the same time, Indigenous peoples who 
5.	 UNEP. 2022. Emissions Gap Report. Available at https://www.unep.org/
resources/emissions-gap-report-2022.
have been safeguarding and stewarding these resources 
for millennia are facing greater threats than ever. 
Water scarcity affects more than 40% of the world’s 
population. An estimated 1.8 billion people depend 
on drinking water contaminated by human waste. 
Unsustainable water management practices, including 
chemical discharges into water supply systems for 
irrigation, affect the functioning of ecosystems services. 
Global resource consumption assessments for rare 
earth elements are critical. Although reserves of these 
elements do not exist in concentrated clusters – which 
make them inefficient for mining – certain countries 
are quite dominant in this field, producing 98% of the 
world’s supply. As demand for rare earth elements is 
increasing tremendously, their scarcity is becoming 
more evident.
Ocean goods and services (SDG 14 and the High Seas 
Treaty) are at severe risk due to full- to over-exploitation 
Figure 1.1  
SDG Index world average: pre-pandemic trend and trend needed to achieve the SDGs by 2030
Note: Pre-pandemic trend corresponds to the extrapolated annual growth rate over the period 2015–2019. See Part 2 for further details.
Source: Authors analysis
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
World Average
Pre-pandemic trend
Trend needed to achieve the SDGs
1. The SDSN Framework

page 17:
6   
of nearly 90% of global fish stocks.6 The crises facing 
our oceans are unabated, multidimensional, and 
complex. These crises include the destruction of 
fisheries through over-fishing and the deployment of 
destructive technologies (such as ocean trawling); the 
destruction of coastal wetland ecosystems; the mass 
pollution of estuaries through fluxes of nitrogen and 
phosphorus (causing eutrophication) and other chemical 
pollutants; acidification of the oceans (with an increase 
of 30% over the last 50 years due to rising atmospheric 
concentrations of CO2
7); pollution of the high seas 
(including plastic waste and microplastics in marine 
food chains); the slowdown of ocean circulation due to 
climate change; explosions of invasive marine species 
due to increased shipping facilities; and rising sea levels 
(including the growing possibility of a rapid, multi-metre 
sea-level rise caused by the disintegration of parts of the 
Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets). Inland fisheries are 
also experiencing similar challenges.
6.	 The World Bank. 2017. Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals.  
https://datatopics.worldbank.org/sdgatlas/archive/2017/SDG-14-life-
below-water.html 
7.	 Smithsonian Institution. 2018. Ocean Acidification. https://ocean.
si.edu/ocean-life/invertebrates/ocean-acidification 
The 2021 UN Food Systems Summit raised many urgent 
concerns around improving the sustainability, affordability, 
and quality of food across the world (SDG 2). Overall, the 
Food Systems Summit highlighted the need for an inte-
grated and global approach to addressing food systems 
challenges, including food security, rural development, the 
reduction of food waste, transparency along the value chain, 
sustainable diets, and the fight against climate change. 
Providing quality education (SDG 4) for all children is 
perhaps the single most important key to achieving 
sustainable development in the long term. The UN 
General Assembly’s Transforming Education Summit 
held in September 2022 was a critical meeting to spur 
national and global efforts to transform education to 
give all people the skills and knowledge to end poverty, 
protect the environment, and build peaceful and inclusive 
societies.8 And yet, the truth remains that hundreds of 
millions of children are either out of school entirely or 
receiving such an under-funded and under-resourced 
education that they are failing to achieve basic literacy 
and numeracy even after several years of education. 
8.	 UN Transforming Education Summit, 2022, https://www.un.org/en/
transforming-education-summit 
Figure 1.2  
Observed and projected gaps in SDG Index score between HICs and LICs (in percentage points)
Note: Projected gap by 2030 is based on extrapolation of annual growth rate on the SDG Index over the period 2019-2021. 
Pre-pandemic projected gap is based on an extrapolation of SDG Index annual growth rates over the period 2015-2019. 
Source: Authors analysis
Gap in 2015
Gap in 2022
Projected gap by 2030
(current trend)
Projected gap by 2030
(pre-pandemic trend)
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 18:
Planetary boundaries and geophysical tipping points
7   
Planetary boundaries and 
geophysical tipping points
Humanity is eroding the biological and physical 
resilience of Earth’s physical systems by transgressing 
environmental limits that endanger their functioning: the 
“planetary boundaries” that regulate the Earth system. 
The latest scientific assessments indicate that six of the 
nine planetary boundaries have been breached. The 
scientific evidence points to global risks well beyond 
climate change, including the loss of biodiversity 
and ecological functions, changes in natural land 
use configuration, overuse of both green and blue 
water, overloading of nitrogen and phosphorus, and 
widespread chemical pollution. 
One of the most ominous aspects of this rampant, and still 
uncontrolled, heedlessness is the likelihood of reaching 
multiple dire tipping points in the Earth’s physical systems. 
Scientists have identified a large number of extremely 
dangerous potential tipping points, with linkages and 
dependencies across the different planetary boundaries. 
Tipping points are characterized by a non-linear response 
to gradual human forcings. Human-induced global 
warming could hit several tipping points that may in turn 
lead to further feedbacks (amplifications) of the warming. 
For example, as the Earth warms, sea ice melts, reducing 
the reflectance of solar radiation back into space and 
accelerating the warming. Similarly, melting permafrost 
in the Tundra could release massive stores of CO2 and 
methane, leading to rapid further warming. Another 
Figure 1.3 
Projected global warming under alternative policy scenarios9 
2°C pathway
1.5°C pathway
Current policies scenario:
2.8°C (66% chance)
Estimated global 
warming over the 
twenty-first century
Conditional NDC scenario:
2.4°C (66% chance)
Unconditional NDC scenario:
2.6°C (66% chance)
Unconditional NDC scenario with net-zero 
targets: 1.8°C (66% chance)
GtCO2e
Conditional NDC scenario with net-zero 
targets: 1.8°C (66% chance)
2010 policies scenario
Area of figure 4.2
Indicative emissions gap to 2°C and 1.5°C 
pathways for the conditional NDC scenario
Indicative emissions gap to 2°C and 1.5°C 
pathways for the unconditional NDC scenario
20
10
0
30
40
50
60
70
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
Source: UNEP, Emissions Gap Report 2022
1. The SDSN Framework

page 19:
8   
tipping point would be the collapse of the world’s 
rainforests due to warming (and associated drying) in the 
Amazon, Congo, and other tropical regions, which would 
release a massive new load of CO2 into the atmosphere. 
Others include slowing or stopping the global ocean 
(thermohaline) circulation, and significant loss of coral 
reefs.10 Each of these potential tipping points would lead 
to global disaster on an unprecedented scale.
The interconnected environmental, social, and health 
challenges can be characterized as a planetary health 
crisis, caused by human activities such as industrialization, 
urbanization, deforestation, and the burning of fossil 
fuels. The consequences of inaction in the face of this 
crisis are significant and far-reaching, affecting both the 
natural systems that sustain life on Earth and the well-
being of human societies.
9.	 UNEP. 2022. Emissions Gap Report. Available at https://www.unep.org/
resources/emissions-gap-report-2022.
10.	David I. Armstrong McKay, et al., Exceeding 1.5°C global warming 
could trigger multiple climate tipping points. Science 377, eabn7950 
(2022). DOI:10.1126/science.abn7950
Grave dangers of social tipping 
points
Unless the SDGs are actively pursued, geophysical tipping 
points combined with technological disruptions could 
ignite disastrous social conflicts within and between 
nations. We must therefore acknowledge the real risk of 
negative “social tipping points” beyond which peaceful 
governance and co-existence breaks down, as it did in 
World War I and World War II. 
We firmly believe that international cooperation together 
with the achievement of the SDGs is the best preventative 
to this dire and growing risk, and represent an opportunity 
to create positive social tipping points: for example, 
through equal access to high-quality education (SDG 4), 
and by fighting all forms of inequalities, including income 
and wealth inequalities (SDG 10). 
We see across societies that inequalities are rising. 
Environmental crises weigh most heavily on the poorest 
and most marginalized individuals. At the same time, 
technological advances such as artificial intelligence and 
robotics have the potential to eliminate many working-
class and professional jobs. The COVID-19 pandemic also 
severely depleted trust in governments. Many societies, 
and not only the poorest ones, are facing increased crises 
of governance, marked by political and social instability, 
general strikes, and a further loss of public confidence in 
government. Although all governments are in principle 
committed to economic justice as enshrined in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to the SDG 
tenets of ‘leave no one behind’ and ‘reach the furthest 
behind first’, too few are living up to these commitments, 
especially as powerful groups block adequate public 
support for weaker groups. 
In her 2022 report on the SDGs, E. Tendayi Achiume – 
UN Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance 
– noted that racism and racial discrimination are key 
barriers to sustainable development, and called attention 
to the failure of some States to collect disaggregated data 
on race, ethnicity, indigeneity, and migration status in the 
context of the 2030 Agenda. She noted however that, 
while disrupting the dynamic of racially discriminatory 
underdevelopment may require a greater transformation 
than is possible at this moment, the SDGs held untapped 
potential to advance both development and non-
discrimination. The report’s recommendations include 
calling for more racially-disaggregated SDG indicators 
and for dialogue with stakeholders on how to use these 
indicators to better allocate resources and prioritize the 
inclusion of marginalized peoples.11
The geopolitical situation today is certainly the most 
conflictual in decades, perhaps since World War II. The 
rise of China has led to great tension between it and the 
11.	Achiume, T. E. (2022). 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
the Sustainable Development Goals and the fight against racial 
discrimination. Report of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary 
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance. A/HRC/50/60 (13 June–8 July 2022), available from 
https://www.ohchr.org/en/documents/thematic-reports/ahrc5060-
2030-agenda-sustainable-development-sustainable-development.
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 20:
Investing in the SDGs 
9   
United States, and much of the world is trying to adjust 
to the strains between these two major economies. 
The disastrous war in Ukraine has further destabilized 
and divided the world’s nations. There are calls in many 
countries to increase military budgets, even as the SDGs 
are woefully underfunded at home and internationally. 
New records on global military spending were reached in 
2022, totaling US$2.2 trillion, even as the most basic social 
services were under grave stress in many countries. 
Economic tipping points could accompany or be 
triggered by environmental, social, governance, and 
geopolitical tipping points. Banking failures are a prime 
example of an economic tipping point: the national 
economy deteriorates to the point where a financial crisis 
is triggered, in turn pushing the economy into a massive 
downturn. This was seen in the Great Depression of the 
1930s and the Great Recession of 2008. Similarly, extreme 
poverty can lead to a collapse of tax revenues, followed by 
government bankruptcy and further economic collapse, a 
syndrome that now threatens dozens of poor countries. 
12.	Sachs JD, Schmidt-Traub G, Lafortune G., 2020. Speaking truth to 
power about the SDGs, Nature. https://www.nature.com/articles/
d41586-020-02373-7
Investing in the SDGs 
Despite this ominous news, the SDGs are still achievable. 
None of their objectives are beyond our reach.12 Yes, 
the world is off-track, but that is all the more reason to 
double-down on the goals, rather than surrendering to 
human-made shortfalls in achieving them. Our future 
remains in our hands. 
At their core, the SDGs are an investment agenda. In the 
most basic terms, the world must devote an increased 
portion of current output to building up sustainable 
capital assets for the future, and must deploy such assets 
effectively. Sustainable capital assets are long-lasting 
capital resources that can enable the world to meet the 
agreed goals of economic well-being, social justice, and 
environmental sustainability. The world must both shift 
its current investment patterns and increase the overall 
investment flow in order to build the future we want.
Development practitioners have identified eight major 
kinds of capital assets:
1.	 Human capital: The skills and health of a productive 
citizenry, supported by universal health access 
and coverage, quality education, shared data and 
knowledge, promotion of a culture of peace and non-
violence, global citizenship, and the appreciation of 
cultural diversity.
2.	 Infrastructure: Energy production and distribution, 
land and sea transport, telecommunications, digital 
information services, public buildings (e.g., schools and 
hospitals), and safe water and sanitation. 
3.	 Natural capital: The capacity and healthy functioning 
of ecosystems, to be protected by ending human-
induced climate change, protecting biodiversity, 
sustainably managing freshwater resources, and 
eliminating toxic pollutants. 
4.	 Innovation capital: The stock of intellectual property 
and data resulting from public and private research and 
development, creative cultural works, and responsibly 
governed and managed emerging technologies.
5.	 Business capital: Goods and services of true social 
value derived from utilizing the machinery, buildings, 
information resources, and other capital assets that 
underpin business productivity.
6.	 Social capital: Social trust and pro-social values, good 
governance and justice, freedom of speech and the 
press, trusted scientific capabilities, and international 
cooperation. 
7.	 Urban capital: Spatial human settlements, notably 
in urban areas, that drive and support productive and 
creative interactions across the other seven capital 
assets.
8.	 Cultural capital: Appreciation of the diversity of 
cultures, value systems, languages, the traditional 
knowledge systems of Indigenous peoples, and artistic 
expressions.
These capital assets are complementary; that is, they 
work together in a mutually-supportive manner. A 
business cannot be productive if its workers lack skills 
and health, or if there is no electricity, piped water, 
1. The SDSN Framework

page 21:
10   
transport, or digital access. A society cannot function 
peacefully if there is a breakdown of social capital. 
A city cannot function without water. Challenges 
such as decarbonization cannot be met with existing 
technologies alone, and so depend on continued 
innovation and scientific research, especially in countries 
where investment is low. There is no hope of achieving 
global food security for more than eight billion people 
unless Earth’s natural capital is protected. And there is 
no hope for global peace unless there is respect for, and 
investment in, cultural capital and cultural diversity. 
To achieve the SDGs, the world must invest boldly, 
amply, and consistently in all eight kinds of capital. 
These investments must involve both governments 
and corporations. For example, while business capital is 
mainly the purview of the private sector, human capital 
is mainly the purview of the public sector. Governments 
too must take the lead in protecting natural capital, 
while civil society especially must promote social and 
cultural capital, including mutual understanding across 
cultures and nations. Infrastructure capital and innovation 
capital tend to be financed roughly equally by the public 
and private sectors. For example, governments tend 
to finance power transmission grids, while the private 
sector tends to finance power generation. Governments 
generally finance basic scientific research, while 
businesses focus on applied R&D. 
Parallel to investing in the SDGs, the world needs to 
stop investing in activities that threaten planetary 
boundaries, destroy human and natural capital, and harm 
social cohesion. Curtailing the extraction and use of 
fossil fuels is of paramount importance. To curb harmful 
investments, regulatory measures, including fair and 
sustainable taxation and the dismantling of unsustainable 
subsidies, need to be an integral element of the SDG 
investment agenda.
In 2022, the United Nations Secretary-General appointed 
a High-Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism, 
with a mandate to develop a list of concrete, actionable 
recommendations to improve international cooperation 
and advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. The Board’s 2023 report lists six areas for 
action that are directly aligned with the SDGs and SDSN’s 
recommendations: rebuilding trust in multilateralism, 
safeguarding our planet and its people, scaling up and 
improving the efficacy of global finance, improving data 
systems and their governance, and promoting peace.13
13.	High-Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism (HLAB), 
2022. A Breakthrough for People and Planet: Effective and Inclusive 
Global Governance for Today and the Future, https://www.
highleveladvisoryboard.org/breakthrough 
Failures (and some successes) of 
national SDG governance 
The most important level of decision-making remains the 
nation-state. Nation-states hold the primary responsibility 
for achieving the SDGs. They are members of the United 
Nations and the signatories of United Nations treaties. 
They hold juridical responsibility for implementing 
treaty agreements and the rest of the United Nations 
architecture, including the United Nations Charter, the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the SDGs. 
National governments must ensure both the domestic 
implementation of the SDGs, including the reduction of 
negative spillovers, and international implementation by 
building a global governance and financial architecture 
that delivers the SDGs. Crucially, national government 
must also work with subnational governments to 
implement the SDG agenda at the local level, including 
sustainable urban infrastructure, delivery of social services, 
and ensuring safe communities.
Virtually all governments of the world have embraced 
the SDGs in principle. 188 of 193 UN Member States have 
submitted VNRs for comment by the other nations. Only 
five countries, notably the United States, Haiti, Myanmar, 
South Sudan, and Yemen, have never presented VNRs. 
Four of these countries are wracked by violence and 
poverty. The case of the United States stands as a glaring 
exception. 
The Nordic countries and European Union have shown 
considerable support for the SDGs. So too have many 
developing countries in the G20. However, many 
governments of developing countries have made 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 22:
Failures (and some successes) of national SDG governance 
11   
only low to moderate SDG commitments, although 
of course these countries have also not received the 
financing needed to support the Goals.14 In many cases, 
national SDG strategies remain disconnected from core 
government policies and priorities. These are some of the 
findings of SDSN’s annual (2023) survey on government 
efforts and commitments for the SDGs, which is 
conducted in close cooperation with our global network 
of experts and practitioners. Of 74 governments analyzed, 
we see large differences in terms of government efforts 
and commitments (see Part 3).
The greatest responsibility for achieving the SDGs and 
safeguarding the planetary boundaries lies with the G20 
members. These countries represent more than 80% of 
global GDP, around 70% of the world’s forests, more than 
60% of the earth’s population, and more than 50% of its 
landmass. The G20 countries account for 90% of global 
lignite and coal extraction and more than 60% of global 
oil and gas production. 
The United States, as the world’s biggest economy in 
terms of GDP at market prices and its biggest oil and 
gas producer, has a responsibility both to itself and 
to the rest of the world to immediately embark on an 
ambitious transformation towards the SDGs, as well as 
towards other global climate and biodiversity goals. With 
the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, the Biden government 
announced its intention to reduce carbon emissions by 
roughly 40 percent from 2005 levels by 2030, although 
there are growing concerns that outcomes will lag behind 
these goals, due in part to the legislation’s lack of an 
agreed national financing strategy other than tax credits. 
This and other policy measures fall short, however, of the 
scope and ambition of the SDGs. Overall, the United States 
has so far shown very little commitment to the SDGs. We 
call on the United States to formulate an SDG action plan 
and to present a VNR to the High-Level Political Forum. 
The European Union – the world’s second-largest 
economy and its major lignite producer – has produced 
14.	Lafortune, G., Fuller, G., Bermont Diaz, L., Kloke-Lesch, A., Koundouri, 
P., Riccaboni, A. (2022). Achieving the SDGs: Europe’s Compass in a 
Multipolar World. Europe Sustainable Development Report 2022. SDSN 
and SDSN Europe. France: Paris. https://eu-dashboards.sdgindex.org
the European Green Deal (EGD), which is exemplary in 
many regards. Many EU member states demonstrate a 
high or moderate SDG commitment. The EGD embraces 
an EU-wide set of goals, timelines to 2050, and financing 
strategies across major dimensions of the SDGs: energy 
decarbonization, climate resilience, circular economy (to 
cut pollution), sustainable agriculture (the “farm-to-fork” 
strategy), digital access, and innovation. EU-wide financial 
resources, notably the EU Recovery and Resilience Facility, 
were mobilized to support the EGD. The European 
Regional Development Fund, which provides the EU 
cohesion funds, is also directed towards the EGD. The 
Horizon Europe program and EU Missions in Horizon 
Europe catalyze the EU’s efforts to stimulate innovation 
and identify concrete solutions for the EGD. However, 
the EGD and EU policies at large lack a comprehensive 
alignment to the SDGs, politically agreed targets for many 
SDG indicators, and clarity on how to achieve the SDGs. 
The EU has also highlighted the strategic role of the 
private sector in achieving the SDGs, by implementing a 
new directive asking companies to publish sustainability 
reports and, in particular in the food sector, by promoting 
the “Code of Conduct on Responsible Food Business and 
Marketing Practices”, a tool for setting out the actions that 
agri-food companies can voluntarily commit to in order 
to tangibly improve and communicate their sustainability 
performance. SDSN’s Europe SDR emphasizes the 
importance of living up to the ambitions of the EGD 
and the SDGs, both inside the EU as well as in the EU’s 
foreign actions, despite the multiple crises faced.15 In 
July 2023, the EU is set to present its first Union-wide 
voluntary review at the United Nations. This presents a 
good opportunity for the EU to send a strong message 
to the international community, and to demonstrate its 
commitment to and leadership on the SDGs.
China, as the world’s largest economy in purchasing-
power-adjusted terms and its biggest coal producer, 
intends to implement the SDGs by integrating them 
into its medium and long-term national development 
strategies, such as its five-year plans. China has already 
presented two VNRs to the HLPF (2016 and 2021). The 
15.	 ibid.
1. The SDSN Framework

page 23:
12   
14th five-year plan referred to the 2030 Agenda mainly 
in the context of international cooperation. Recently, 
China has reiterated its support for the SDGs, such as in 
greening its Belt and Road Initiative and launching the 
Global Development Initiative as a worldwide effort. A key 
measure for China will be the explicit integration of the 
SDGs’ domestic and international implementation into the 
15th five-year plan (2026–2030). 
Some other G20 countries have shown weak 
commitments to the SDGs in recent years. Many of the 
poor performers, such as Brazil, recently elected new 
governments that have staked out a far more ambitious 
position vis-à-vis the SDGs. We urge all G20 governments 
to show the leadership required of them. 
Most of the low-income and lower-middle income 
countries, home to more than the half of humanity, face 
major challenges in achieving most of the SDGs by 2030. 
Many of them lack an adequately high SDG commitment, 
and almost all lack access to the necessary financial means 
to implement the SDGs. 
At the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, all countries, poorer 
and richer alike, should use the half-way momentum to 
self-critically review and revise their national strategies, 
using the principles of the 2030 Agenda (transformative, 
integrated, inclusive, leaving no one behind) as a yardstick. 
Across the globe, we need to leave the comfort zones of 
political leaders and question the obstacles of outmoded 
ideologies, habits, and weak governance. We also need 
responsible business leadership leaving their comfort 
zone to establish SDG-compatible business models and 
appropriate business governance.16
16.	Leisinger, Klaus M. Integrity in Business and 
Society, CRT publications, Minneapolis, United States, December 2021. 
Failures of global governance 
Achieving the SDGs will require a transformative global 
approach. Yet current methods and mechanisms for 
implementing the Agenda largely reflect pre-2015 world 
realities and are far from meeting the universality and 
transformative ambition of the SDGs. Four basic failures 
stand out: First, implementation is largely left to the 
national level and on a voluntary basis, without effective 
multilateral enforcement mechanisms in place. Second, 
developed countries are not being held to account, 
neither for their adverse spillovers, nor for ensuring 
adequate flows of financing for sustainable development. 
Third, the rules governing trade and international 
finance are not geared towards the SDGs. For example, 
globalized trade rules for ‘cleantech’ could accelerate 
the energy transition and offer protections to workers, 
however such rules have not been negotiated or agreed 
upon. Unifying international business ecosystems could 
similarly improve industrial supply chains, particularly 
by leveraging artificial intelligence. And fourth, national 
governments typically lack ‘vertical’ coordination with 
subnational governments for SDG implementation. 
Both the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Climate Agreement 
established mechanisms to encourage and monitor 
their implementation by nation-states. However, 
experience so far with VNRs and Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs), respectively, demonstrate that 
these mechanisms – despite some progress – have not 
delivered the effort necessary to achieve global goals. 
Even the progress on consistent national reporting on 
SDG indicators is inadequate. There are no assessments 
or recommendations by the respective secretariats or 
decision-making bodies on the adequacy or further 
enhancement of national implementation, let alone 
measures of enforcement. This is especially important 
for those SDGs where national (non-)compliance has 
significant externalities for the global community and 
avoiding threats to the planetary boundaries. There are 
lessons to be learned from international agreements 
in other fields like trade, human rights, or international 
peace and security; these can be translated and refined 
to support sustainable development. 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 24:
Failures of the global financial architecture
13   
Failures of the global financial 
architecture
The “global financial architecture” (GFA) refers to the 
complex system of public and private finance that 
channels the world’s saving to the world’s investment. The 
GFA includes multilateral institutions (for example, IMF and 
World Bank), national and local budgets, public borrowing 
and debts, and private equity and debt financing. Financial 
institutions that intermediate savings and investment play 
a key role, including national and multilateral development 
banks (publicly owned banks that borrow from capital 
markets to on-lend funds to public and private entities), 
sovereign wealth funds, private-sector banks, insurance 
funds, pension funds, asset management funds, venture 
capital, credit rating agencies, and others. 
The global financial architecture falls short in the following 
six ways:
1.	 Deep, chronic, and crippling under-investment in 
virtually all low-income countries (LICs) and lower-
middle-income countries (LMICs). In 2022, Investment 
per person in the LICs averaged a meagre US$175 per 
person, compared with US$11,535 per person in the 
HICs. (Table 1.1). In fact, investment as a share of GDP 
was lower in the LICs (20.9%) than in all other income 
categories. The poor are consequently languishing in 
poverty. 
2.	 Most LICs and LMICs (and many small-island 
developing states [SIDS], including those that are 
UMICs) lack the credit ratings to borrow on acceptable 
terms (Table 1.2)
3.	 LICs, LMICs, and SIDS are highly vulnerable to self-
fulfilling liquidity crises and balance of payments 
crises, making it nearly impossible for these countries 
to implement a long-term sustainable investment 
strategy. 
4.	 HICs are able to mobilize vast financial resources 
very quickly, as seen during the 2008 financial crisis, 
the pandemic, and the war in Ukraine. Yet they are 
not prepared to mobilize such resources for global 
sustainable development, despite the urgency and 
previous promises regarding development assistance 
and climate financing. 
5.	 Private capital markets continue to direct large flows 
of private saving to unsustainable technologies and 
practices, delaying decarbonization of the world’s 
energy system and underpinning destruction of the 
world’s ecosystems. 
6.	 International cooperation is trapped by bureaucratic 
institutional frameworks that reduce the speed, 
efficacy, and efficiency of funding to meet the SDGs, 
and that fail to provide the framework for large-scale 
SDG financing. 
It is widely recognized that the world needs to overhaul 
the GFA. Such an overhaul should address the failures 
above and aim to achieve six objectives:
1.	 Greatly increase funding to national and subnational 
governments and private businesses in the emerging 
economies, especially the LICs and LMICs, to carry out 
the needed investments.
2.	 Revise the credit rating system and debt sustainability 
metrics to facilitate long-term sustainable 
development.
3.	 Revise liquidity structures for LICs,LMICs, and SIDS, 
especially regarding sovereign debts, to forestall self-
fulfilling banking and balance-of-payments crises.
4.	 Create ambitious and internationally-agreed upon 
criteria for sustainable finance that are mandatory for 
all public financial institutions in HICs, MICs, and LICs 
alike.
5.	 Align private business investment flows in all countries 
with the SDGs, through improved national planning, 
regulation, reporting, and oversight. 
6.	 Reform current institutional frameworks and develop 
new, innovative mechanisms to improve the quality 
and speed of deployment of international cooperation, 
and monitor progress in an open and timely manner.
1. The SDSN Framework

page 25:
14   
SDSN’s strategy to achieve the SDGs
Overhauling global governance mechanisms and the 
global financial architecture is fundamental to unlocking 
needed investments for sustainable development and 
ending non-sustainable practices. The GFA includes 
not only strictly financial mechanisms, but also public 
policies regarding budgets and regulation. Moreover, 
public policies must be pursued at all levels: globally 
through treaties such as the UNFCCC; regionally, such 
as through the European Union, the African Union, 
and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN); 
nationally, through national plans and budgets; and 
locally, at the provincial and city level, including through 
city networks. The GFA also requires alignment of the 
private sector with the SDGs, brought about through 
regulation, incentives (such as tax incentives or carbon 
pricing), and management practices. 
The SDG policy agenda is complex. The SDGs call for 
lasting, long-term, directed change. For governments 
to combine the objectives of economic development, 
social inclusion, transparency, energy decarbonization, 
climate adaptation, water resources and sanitation, 
biodiversity conservation, digital access, gender 
equality, circular economy, over-harvesting, universal 
Table 1.1 
Global Population, Investment, and GDP by World 
Bank Income Category (% of World Total)
Population
Investment
GDP
LIC
8.0%
0.4%
0.5%
LMIC
43.2%
11.9%
10.7%
UMIC
32.7%
37.4%
28.5%
HIC
16.1%
50.3%
60.3%
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2022
Number of UN 
Member States
Countries with a 
Moody’s rating
Countries with 
an investment-
grade rating
Countries with an 
investment-grade 
rating, %
Population with 
an investment-
grade rating, %
LIC
28
9
0
0.0%
0.0%
LMIC
54
36
3
5.6%
52.8%
UMIC
52
40
10
19.2%
70.2%
HIC
59
52
45
76.3%
98.3%
WORLD
193
137
58
30.1%
60.5%
Source: Moody’s and World Bank (2023)
Table 1.2 
Credit Ratings by Income Category 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 26:
SDSN’s strategy to achieve the SDGs
15   
health access and coverage, and universal (pre-
primary, primary, and secondary) high-quality public 
education, is daunting. These challenges are far more 
complex than the typical aims of government. They 
are long-term, technology-based, and capital intensive, 
replete with technological and political uncertainties, 
inherently a blend of public and private actions, and in 
need of coordinated investments and planning with 
neighboring countries. 
SDSN puts a great emphasis on long-term national 
planning, to coordinate public investments, regulations, 
and incentive structures over a time horizon of 20-30 
years. Our special emphasis is on pathway analysis to 
help governments and business design long-term 
investment plans. For that reason, the SDSN first 
pioneered the concept of “Deep Decarbonization 
Pathways” in the lead-up to the Paris Agreement, to 
show governments how they could plan their energy 
investments during the time period 2015-2050. The 
SDSN’s initiative contributed to the concept of Long-
term Low-Emission Development Strategies (LEDS) built 
into the Paris Agreement (Article 4.19). All countries are 
to prepare and submit long-term LEDS for submission 
to the UNFCCC. SDSN also launched the Global Climate 
Hub to continue this work.17 SDSN is also leading 
global efforts, in cooperation with the Food and Land 
Use (FOLU) Coalition and other partners, to define 
long-term sustainable food and land-use pathways 
via the Food, Agriculture, Biodiversity, Land-Use, and 
Energy (FABLE) Consortium.18 SDSN has joined the 
Group on Earth Observations (GEO)19 as a Participating 
Organization, supporting the efforts of this voluntary 
intergovernmental community to focus national, 
international, and private sector investments in Earth 
observations on urgent SDG needs. 
17.	SDSN Global Climate Hub. Website. Accessed May 16, 2023. https://
unsdsn.globalclimatehub.org. 
18.	Mosnier, A., Schmidt-Traub, G., Obersteiner, M. et al. How can diverse 
national food and land-use priorities be reconciled with global 
sustainability targets? Lessons from the FABLE initiative. Sustain Sci 18, 
335–345 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-022-01227-7 
19.	Earth Observations. Available at: https://earthobservations.org 
Long-term investment plans are essential for national 
success in meeting the SDGs. SDSN has recommended 
six inter-related long-term transformations:20
1.	 Universal quality education and innovation-based 
economy
2.	 Universal health access and coverage
3.	 Zero-carbon energy systems
4.	 Sustainable ecosystems, sustainable agriculture, 
and climate resilience
5.	 Sustainable cities
6.	 Transformation to universal digital access and 
services
Each of these challenges will require large-scale 
public and private investments to mid-century, 
technological transformation, and a sound financing 
strategy. None can be solved by the private sector 
alone; indeed, governments will have to take the 
lead to design policy and financial frameworks within 
which business can profitably invest and innovate. 
The Sustainable Development Report 2023 identifies 
five levers to be deployed to bring about the 
necessary transformations: governance, economy and 
finance, individual and collective action, science and 
technology, and capacity building. The development 
of financing strategies could be supported by using 
the methodology of integrated national financing 
frameworks, whichare already being developed in 
more than 80 countries globally.
Planning for the long term, however, illuminates 
the global financial architecture’s Achilles heel. 
While the high-income countries (HICs) and upper-
middle income countries (UMICs) can and should, 
in principle, finance these transformations via 
a combination of budget outlays, public-sector 
borrowing, and private financing (equity and debt), 
this is surely not true of the low-Income countries 
(LICs) and the lower middle-income countries 
20.	Sachs, J.D., Schmidt-Traub, G., Mazzucato, M. et al. Six Transformations 
to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Nat Sustain 2, 805–814 
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41893-019-0352-9 
1. The SDSN Framework

page 27:
16   
(LMICs). Careful research by the SDSN and the 
International Monetary Fund has revealed the very 
large financing gap facing nations in the poorer half 
of the world.21
According to IMF estimates in 2019, the financing gap 
facing 57 low-income developing countries (LICs and 
LMICs that are eligible for IMF concessional financing) 
to cover very basic investments in health, education, 
power, roads, and water and sanitation was in the order 
of US$300 billion to US$500 billion per year.22 Even the 
most basic economic needs are currently out of reach 
for roughly half the world. And these IMF estimates 
do not yet begin to include the full costs of energy 
decarbonization, climate adaptation, losses and damages 
from climate-related disasters, digital access, or urban 
infrastructure. Adding in these extra needs, the global SDG 
financing gap is perhaps US$1 trillion per year, or roughly 
1% of gross world product (GWP) at market prices. As a 
rough rule of thumb based on work by SDSN and the IMF, 
the LICs need roughly 20% of their GDP in increased SDG 
investment outlays while the LMICs need roughly 10%, 
though precise amounts vary by country. 
To make sure that existing financial resources and the 
required additional resources are used for sustainable 
investments, international finance institutions must 
fully incorporate achieving the SDGs and safeguarding 
the planetary boundaries into their core mandates, and 
monitor these regarding all countries, poorer and richer 
alike. Global infrastructure programs like China’s Belt and 
Road, the EU’s Global Gateway, or the United States’ Build 
Back Better World initiatives must be much better aligned 
with the SDGs and coordinated with each other. 
21.	Gaspar, Vitor et al. 2019. Fiscal Policy and Development: Human, 
Social, and Physical Investment for the SDGs. IMF Staff Discussion 
Note. https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/Staff-Discussion-Notes/ 
Issues/2019/01/18/Fiscal-Policy-and-Development-Human-Socialand- 
Physical-Investments-for-the-SDGs-46444
22.	ibid. 
The urgent need for an SDG Stimulus
23.	 Guterres, A. The Secretary-General: Address to the General Assembly. 
New York, 20 September 2022. https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/sg/
speeches/2022-09-20/secretary-generals-address-the-general-assembly
24.	The High-Level Informal Working Group is co-convened by Ms. Amina 
Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations and 
Professor Jeffrey Sachs, University Professor, Columbia University. 
Members: Dr. Amar Bhattacharya, Brookings; Mr. Navid Hanif, UN 
DESA; Dr. Homi Kharas, Brookings; Dr. Mahmoud Mohieldin, United 
Nations; Mr. Remy Rioux, AFD; Dr. Rajiv Shah, Rockefeller; Mr. Achim 
Steiner, UNDP.
25.	United Nations Secretary-General. 2023. SDG Stimulus To Deliver 
Agenda 2030. https:/www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-
content/uploads/2023/02/SDG-Stimulus-to-Deliver-Agenda-2030.pdf 
26.	High-Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism (HLAB), 
2022. A Breakthrough for People and Planet: Effective and Inclusive 
Global Governance for Today and the Future, https://www.
highleveladvisoryboard.org/breakthrough
In his opening address to the UN General Assembly 
on September 20, 2022, UN Secretary-General António 
Guterres called on the G20 to launch an “SDG Stimulus” 
to offset the deteriorating market conditions faced 
by developing countries and to accelerate progress 
towards the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement.23 
SDSN provided the Secretariat of a High-Level Informal 
Working Group for the SDG Stimulus (HLIWG),24 that 
made the case for an SDG Stimulus of an additional 
US$500 billion per year by 2025 of SDG finance. The SDG 
Stimulus plan recommended by the High-Level Working 
Group and introduced by SG Guterres last February25 has 
five main components:
1.	 Increased funding from the Multilateral Development 
Banks (MDBs) and Public Development Banks (PDBs) 
to developing countries, linked to investments in the 
SDGs, a need echoed in the 2023 report of the High-
Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism26
2.	 Enhancement of the Debt Service Suspension Initiative 
(DSSI) and debt relief for countries facing debt distress
3.	 Expansion of liquidity by the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF) and major central banks
4.	 Empowerment and expansion of the specialized global 
funds
5.	 Expansion of private philanthropy, with focus on ultra-
high net worth individuals
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 28:
Regional cooperation and sustainable development
17   
The urgent objective of the SDG Stimulus is to address – 
in practical terms and at scale – the chronic shortfall of 
international SDG financing facing the LICs and LMICs, 
and to ramp up financing flows by at least US$500 billion 
by 2025. The most important component of the stimulus 
plan is a massive expansion of loans by the multilateral 
development banks, backed by new rounds of paid-in 
capital by HIC members. Working together with the IMF 
and the MDBs, the emerging countries also need to 
strengthen their debt management and creditworthiness 
by integrating their borrowing policies with tax policies, 
export policies, and liquidity management, all to prevent 
future liquidity crises. The G20 Bali Leaders’ Declaration 
noted another important point, which is the need to 
expand and enhance innovative financing mechanisms, 
including blended finance, as well as improving 
transparency and mutual accountability.
It is also vital to share fairly and globally the burden of 
financing for human-induced adaptation and losses and 
damages (L&D) among responsible countries, and to 
respond to the needs of vulnerable countries and small 
island developing states (SIDS).27
27.	Sachs et al. 2021. The Decade of Action and Small Island Developing 
States: Measuring and addressing SIDS’ vulnerabilities to accelerate 
SDG progress. https://irp.cdn-website.com/be6d1d56/files/uploaded/
WP_MVI_Sachs%20Massa%20Marinescu%20Lafortune_FINAL_
cVeeBVmKSKyYYS6OyiiH.pdf
Enhanced global governance for 
the SDGs 
The SDGs are not yet properly incorporated into 
global governance. Systems coherence, and ultimate 
success in meeting the SDGs, leads us to the following 
recommendations:
1.	 All United Nations agencies should put the SDGs 
at the centerpiece of their strategies, programs, 
and reporting.
2.	 The World Bank and the other MDBs should 
put the SDGs at the center of their financing 
strategies, performance reviews, and reporting.
3.	 The IMF should build its national reviews 
(Article IV), debt sustainability framework (DSF), 
and country programming around the public 
policies and financing needed for national success 
in achieving the SDGs.
4.	 The G20 should organize its financial 
cooperation, reporting, and metrics around 
the reform of the GFA, as needed to achieve 
the SDGs.
5.	 All UN Member States should present VNRs 
at least once every three years. It is especially 
urgent that the five countries that have not 
yet presented VNRs should do so no later 
than 2024.
6.	 United Nations agencies, multilateral 
organizations, and Member States need to 
increase investment in, and coordination 
of, national and international data and 
statistical systems and scientific capacity to 
assess SDG progress and support sustainable 
development decision making and 
investment, including disaggregated data by 
region, social stratification, and other criteria 
as helpful. 
Regional cooperation and 
sustainable development
One of the consistent findings of the SDSN is that SDG 
success requires strong cooperation at the regional level. 
Neighboring countries share ecosystems (rivers, forests, 
fishing zones, wetlands) and must cooperate to protect 
them. Strong regional partnerships are needed to 
achieve regional objectives. The great seas, such as the 
Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea, are under severe 
threat from chemical and plastics pollution, and must be 
protected by all countries whose rivers feed these seas. 
Moreover, regional cooperation is needed to promote 
technological and social innovations. For example, the 
Mediterranean region is a hot spot for climate change, 
threatened also by urbanization, economic pressures, 
and geo-political crises. Nonetheless, it is recognized 
as the birthplace of the “Mediterranean diet,” with an 
1. The SDSN Framework

page 29:
18   
agri-food sector with the potential to meet the increased 
demand for healthy, sustainable foods in the future. 
Transport, zero-carbon power, and digital (fiberoptic) 
backbones depend on regional-scale grids. For all of 
these reasons and more, neighboring countries must 
cooperate deeply to build infrastructure and share 
data and knowledge, and to implement sustainable 
development policies. Regional international policies 
and agreements should be based on available 
scientific knowledge.
SDSN calls for, and is actively supporting, the devel-
opment of similar regional-based sustainability plans 
with associated financing. SDSN is closely following 
and supporting the EU’s endeavors to achieve the 
SDGs, inter alia by the EU’s European Green Deal. The 
EU Green Deal has great potential to bring about 
transformation both within the EU and beyond, 
including the larger European and Mediterranean 
region, and even Africa. SDSN is working with the 
ASEAN Secretariat and member states to help develop 
the ASEAN Green Deal, introduced in 2022 under the 
ASEAN Presidency of Cambodia. SDSN is supporting 
the African Development Bank to develop a strategic 
plan to accelerate Africa’s sustainable development, 
with the aim of the African Union achieving high-in-
come status and sustainable development by 2063, 
the 100th anniversary of the Organization of African 
Unity. SDSN is working with the Amazon Basin 
nations, through the Scientific Panel of the Amazon, 
to develop a regional strategy for the conserva-
tion and sustainable development of the Amazon. 
In that capacity, the SDSN is also supporting new 
partnerships between the rainforest countries of the 
Amazon Basin, the Congo Basin, and Southeast Asia 
for a global financing mechanism to protect all three 
tropical rainforest regions. Protection and sustainable 
management of rainforest ecosystems through related 
standardization will support their impact assessment 
on a global basis.
The sub-national level 
Provincial, metropolitan, and city governments are 
typically at the front line in achieving the SDGs. Nearly 
60 percent of the world population now lives in urban 
areas, and that proportion is likely to rise to at least 
70 percent, and probably higher, by mid-century. 
Moreover, cities constitute at least 85 percent of total 
world output and energy use. What happens in cities will 
determine the future of the world, and the success or 
failure in sustainable development. 
Local governments have the front-line responsibility 
for implementing universal health systems, places in 
school for all children, safe water and sanitation, public 
transport services, adequate housing, and physical safety 
in the local environment (from crime, toxic wastes, and 
natural hazards). This is why mayors and city councils 
around the world have rallied to the SDGs, even if their 
local leadership is sometimes under-appreciated and 
under-noted because national governments tend to 
hold the limelight at the United Nations, with the MDBs, 
and in the media. 
Cities face one other chronic problem. While they are 
largely responsible for service delivery, it is national 
governments that, by and large, collect revenue to fund 
public investments and social services. Cities are therefore 
caught between front-line responsibility and back-of-the-
line access to the necessary public financing. 
SDSN recognizes this gap in the practical means of 
implementation of city governments, and is currently 
working with the major urban think tanks and global 
urban networks (including the C40 and ICLEI) to address 
the challenge of sub-national financing of the SDGs. 
This initiative will be launched in Paris in during the June 
Summit for a New Global Financial Pact. 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 30:
The continuing efforts of the SDSN
19   
Global peace as the prerequisite for 
sustainable development 
28.	Xinhua. 2022. Xi meets German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. https://english.
news.cn/20221104/f544bca38c33443186d3de8b3d0a9a27/c.html 
SDG 16 recognizes the vital role of peaceful and inclusive 
societies, and SDG 17 underscores the need for global 
outreach and cooperation to achieve the Goals. Peace and 
global cooperation must not become mere slogans. They 
are ever more vital to human survival in an age when both 
nuclear weapons and environmental devastation threaten 
the very survival of humanity. We recall in this context the 
powerful truth spoken by United States President John F. 
Kennedy more than 60 years ago, when he declared, “The 
world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal 
hands the power to abolish all forms of human poverty 
and all forms of human life.” Peace and global cooperation 
mean nothing less and nothing more than choosing the 
end of human poverty over the end of human life. 
We take note of the dire warning of the Bulletin of Atomic Sci-
entists, which recently moved the hands of its Doomsday Clock 
to just 90 seconds from midnight, the closest to Armageddon 
in the Clock’s 76-year history; “largely (though not exclusively) 
because of the mounting dangers of the war in Ukraine.” We 
commend global leaders who “oppose the use of or the threat 
to use nuclear weapons”28 and urge all sides to follow this call. 
Had the negotiations underway in March 2022 between 
Russia and Ukraine been successfully concluded, count-
less lives would have been saved and the devastation of 
Ukraine’s cities would have been spared. The world would 
have escaped the current tumult of soaring food and 
energy prices and other financial dislocations. We would 
not be even closer to nuclear Armageddon. 
International relations scholars have powerfully described 
the “tragedy” of great power conflict. They warn that the 
jostling for power – or hegemonic domination – ends in 
tragic wars. We cannot afford such a tragedy in our world 
today. The world is indeed very different now, as we live 
under the threat of nuclear war, and even nuclear anni-
hilation. We need not only technological know-how, but 
also diplomatic know-how, to respect global diversity and 
to settle international disputes peacefully.
The continuing efforts of the SDSN
29.	Mission 4.7. Available from: https://www.mission4point7.org 
30.	 UNESCO, Futures of Education, International Commission. Available from: 
https://en.unesco.org/futuresofeducation/international-commission
The SDSN was created in 2012, soon after the Rio+20 
Summit which mobilized the world’s universities, think 
tanks, and national laboratories on behalf of the SDGs. 
SDSN’s mission was fourfold: scholarly research, educa-
tional innovation, and partnerships, convening power, and 
outreach to the public. We are proud of our efforts since 
2012 in these four areas. 
The SDSN is now a global network of more than 1,900 
member organizations, mainly universities, organized in 
53 national and regional chapters. The SDSN convenes 
global university leadership on behalf of shared activities 
to support sustainable development. In 2022, hundreds 
of university presidents brainstormed and shared best 
practices in aligning their institutions with the SDGs. SDSN 
membership continues to grow rapidly, and new national 
and regional chapters are regularly launched. 
We aim to ensure that institutions of higher learning 
and public policy research centres in all 193 UN Member 
States are actively part of the SDSN. The SDSN’s flagship 
educational initiative, the SDG Academy, directly reaches 
hundreds of thousands of learners each year, with an 
expanding provision of free, world-class educational offer-
ings. In 2023, the SDSN is working with universities around 
the world to launch further low-cost master’s degrees 
in sustainable development, in an effort to dramatically 
increase the number of students reached each year. 
SDSN is working closely with the UNESCO SDG 4 High-
Level Steering Committee on these two major issues, via 
Mission 4.7 through an SDG Academy Partnership with 
the Open Education Resources Recommendation team at 
UNESCO.29 The International Commission on the Futures of 
Education recognizes that open education resources are 
essential for supporting students, educators, and young 
professionals on their education for sustainable develop-
ment (ESD) journeys.30 The UNESCO Recommendation on 
open education resources was endorsed by all Member 
States in November 2019. In September 2022, at the 
1. The SDSN Framework

page 31:
20   
Transforming Education Summit in New York, the United 
Nations Secretary-General announced a number of global 
initiatives. One of them is the International Financing 
Facility for Education.31 Another is the Gateways to Public 
Digital Learning project32 to ensure equitable access to 
and resources for digital learning.
The SDG Academy33 is also building partnerships around 
professional training to upskill employees and make 
them future-ready for implementing the SDGs and Paris 
Agreement. Ideally, at every stage of life, individuals 
should understand how they coexist in harmony with 
people and the planet. We may not wish to harm people, 
or our common home, but all of us must “go back to 
school” and learn how to create positive linkages to 
people and nature in everyday activities, at home and at 
work. SDSN will endeavor to support professional training 
and lifelong learning across all sectors.
Another key dimension of the SDSN’s work is supporting 
governments, at all levels, to understand the implications 
of policy choices and to make evidence-based and 
forward-looking decisions. SDSN engages in a wide range 
of intergovernmental processes, including the G20, G7, 
UNFCCC, CBD meetings, and World Health Assembly. 
These fora are critical to encourage international 
collaboration, promote peace, and implement the 
recommendations contained within this document, in 
particular on SDG finance. SDSN remains at the disposal of 
all stakeholders to analyze pathways and scenarios, and to 
leverage knowledge to make sound decisions. 
All UN Member States and United Nations agencies can 
count on the continued efforts and energies of the SDSN 
around the world to support all governments, businesses, 
and civil society to embrace and align with the SDGs on 
sustainable development. 
31.	 Guterres, A. Secretary-General’s remarks to the Press on the International 
Finance Facility for Education [as delivered], 17 September 2022. 
https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/sg/press-encounter/2022-09-17/
secretary-generals-remarks-the-press-the-international-finance-
facility-for-education-delivered 
32.	United Nations, Gateways to Public Digital Learning, 19 September 
2022. https://www.un.org/en/transforming-education-summit/
gateways-public-digital-learning 
33.	SDG Academy. Available from: https://sdgacademy.org 
Sustainable development to 2030 
and 2050 
The tasks of sustainable development – ensuring 
material human well-being and security, social 
inclusion and justice, environmental sustainability, and 
global cooperation to secure peace and sustainable 
development – are not just tasks to 2030. They are the 
preeminent tasks of the coming generations, enshrined 
in several documents including the 2030 Agenda (2015) 
and UNESCO’s Declaration on the Responsibilities of the 
Present Generations Towards Future Generations (1997). 
They are the work of the 21st century.
We conclude by underscoring the vital, life-affirming 
importance of four key international agreements: the 
Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate 
Agreement, the Kunming-Montreal Framework for 
Biodiversity, and the High Seas Treaty. These are signal 
achievements of humanity, to have come together across 
all nations to adopt a common set of challenges. As we 
have emphasized in this statement, our major challenge 
today is matching these soaring ambitions with the 
means to achieve them, most importantly, the financial 
resources and regulatory conditions for the investments 
needed to achieve these goals.
At the mid-point of the SDG agenda, we are far 
off target. Yet we have gained ground. Almost all 
governments have committed to adopting SDG-
based action plans; technologies have advanced that 
can support the goals (such as green energy, green 
transactions, green jobs, Earth observations, and 
artificial intelligence); and there is growing regional 
cooperation to achieve the goals on the ground, 
through shared investments, knowledge, and policies. 
Achieving the SDGs requires more than “normal politics”. 
Governments are only now learning how to design 
integrated strategies that address economic, social, 
and environmental objectives in tandem. Governments 
are only now mapping out pathways to mid-century 
to meet crucial energy, healthcare, and education 
objectives, among others. Governments are only now 
establishing R&D funds to promote breakthroughs 
in key technologies that will expand their power and 
Part 1. How to Achieve the SDGs: The SDSN Framework

page 32:
Sustainable development to 2030 and 2050 
21   
reduce their costs. Governments are only now building 
the digital platforms and data networks that integrated 
strategies will depend on. And governments are only 
now, many years late, turning their attention to the 
chronic and deep shortcomings of the GFA.
Sustainable human development is a multi-dimensional 
process. The balance between the ecological, economic, 
social, and cultural spheres, together with political, 
ethical, and cultural aspects, must be nurtured. Open 
sharing of data and knowledge across these dimensions 
is essential to building trust and cooperation. People 
of good will must choose and act coherently in their 
private and in their professional lives to further the 
common good.
For these reasons, we end our message with two 
urgent and timely calls for action: 
First, that UN Member States, at the 2023 SDG Summit 
and the 2024 Summit of the Future, recommit boldly, 
strongly, and proactively to the SDGs, accelerate progress 
to 2030, and adopt even more ambitious SDG targets 
and objectives to mid-century, also incorporating recent 
international agreements on oceans and biodiversity. 
As the aims of the 2030 Agenda are ever-evolving, and 
linked to many processes, we call on academia, civil 
society, and business to develop proposals on how this 
agenda can be enhanced and enforced in the decade(s) 
to come.
Second, UN Member States, starting with the G20 
meeting this September in India, should adopt an SDG 
Stimulus to accelerate progress towards the SDGs by 
2030 and enhance global governance for enforcing the 
implementation of the SDGs by all countries.
1. The SDSN Framework



===== GLOBAL_SGD2023_3_The_SDG_Index_and_Dashboards =====

page 34:
23   
The SDG Index and Dashboards track the annual progress of all 193 UN Member States towards the SDGs 
(Box 2.1). At the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, however, the SDGs are far off track. Despite the world improv-
ing on average half a point per year on the SDG Index between 2015 and 2019 (which was already too slow) 
progress has stalled since the outbreak of the pandemic and the onset of other overlapping crises. And while 
most high-income countries (HICs) were able to mitigate the socioeconomic impacts of these multiple crises 
through automatic stabilizers, emergency expenditures, and recovery plans, there has been limited progress 
on environmental and biodiversity goals, including SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), 
SDG 13 (Climate Action), SDG 14 (Life Below Water) and SDG 15 (Life on Land), including in countries that are 
largely responsible for the climate and biodiversity crises. The disruptions caused by these multiple crises 
also aggravated fiscal-space issues in low-income and lower-middle-income countries (LICs and LMICs), 
leading to a reversal in progress on several related goals and indicators.
The SDG Index and Dashboards
Part 2
2.1 SDG Status at the midpoint of 
the  2030 Agenda 
Based on the pace of progress since 2015, none of the 
goals is on track to be achieved globally by 2030. Figure 2.1 
provides a summary of the population-weighted world 
average performance by goal. Those related to hunger, 
sustainable diets, and health outcomes are particularly 
off-track, as are the goals concerning terrestrial and marine 
biodiversity, urban pollution, housing, strong institutions, 
and peaceful societies. Although on average the world 
has made some progress in strengthening access to key 
infrastructure, covered notably under SDG 6 (Clean Water 
and Sanitation), SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) 
and SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), this 
varies extensively across countries, and the world average 
remains too slow to achieve these SDGs globally by 2030. 
The education dashboard focuses on access to pre-primary 
and primary education, as well as on lower-secondary 
Box 2.1 The SDG Index and Dashboards
The SDG Index is an assessment of each country’s overall performance on the 17 SDGs, giving equal weight to each 
Goal. The score signifies a country’s position between the worst possible outcome (score of 0) and the target (score 
of 100). The dashboard and trend arrows help identify priorities for further actions and indicate whether countries are 
on track or off track to achieve the goals and targets by 2030, based on latest trend data. The 2023 SDG Index edition 
includes 97 global indicators. Two-thirds of the data come from official statistics (typically United Nations custodian 
agencies) with one third from non-traditional statistics, including research centers, universities, and non-governmental 
organizations. Published since 2015, the SDG Index and Dashboards has been peer-reviewed and the global edition 
has been statistically audited by the European Commission in 2019 (Schmidt-Traub et al. 2017; Papadimitriou, Neves, 
and Becker 2019). More detailed information is available in the Methods Annex, in the detailed methodology paper 
(Lafortune et al. 2018), and on our website (www.sdgtransformationcenter.org and www.sdgindex.org).
completion rates. Due to limited data availability at the 
global level, it does not track the quality of education, 
equity in learning outcomes, or lifelong learning. The 
dashboard for SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and 
Production) focuses on production-based nitrogen 
emissions, imported nitrogen emissions, and export of 
plastic waste, however we lack time series for several other 
indicators for this goal. Country-level information and 
regional averages are available in the country profiles. 
We estimate that on average only around 18 percent of the 
SDG targets are on track to be achieved globally by 2030. 
These are notably related to basic health outcomes, such 
as neonatal mortality and under-5 mortality rates, as well as 
access to basic infrastructure and services – such as targets on 
mobile use, internet use, and the share of adults with a bank 
account. Other recent findings at the global and regional 
levels similarly suggest that less than 20 percent of the SDG 
targets are on track (United Nations 2023; UNECE 2023).

page 38:
2.2 Leave no one behind
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
27   
There is significant variation in progress by regions and 
income groups. Overall, European countries top the SDG 
Index and are also on track to achieving more targets 
than any other region. Denmark, Czechia, Estonia, Latvia, 
and the Slovak Republic are the five countries that have 
achieved, or are on track to achieving, the largest number 
of SDG targets. By contrast, Lebanon, Yemen, Papua New 
Guinea, Venezuela, and Myanmar present the largest 
number of SDG targets for which there has been a reversal 
in progress. 
Overall, Finland tops the 2023 SDG Index, followed by 
Sweden and Denmark. All top 20 countries on the SDG 
Index are in Europe, most of them European Union 
member states. Yet none of these countries obtains a 
perfect score. The dashboards presented in section 2.4 
illustrate that even the highest-performing countries on 
the SDG Index still face major challenges in achieving 
several SDGs, especially those related to climate, 
biodiversity, and sustainable diets and food systems. As 
detailed in the Europe Sustainable Development Report 
2022, trends on several leave-no-one-behind indicators 
are not heading in the right direction in many EU member 
states (Lafortune et al. 2022). 
Chad, Central African Republic, and South Sudan obtain 
the lowest 2023 SDG Index scores. As a result of missing 
data, we were unable to compute SDG Index scores for 
many Small Island Developing States (SIDS), although their 
country profiles provide an overview of their performance 
by goals and targets, and highlight where data are missing 
for these countries. 
2.2 Leave no one behind
Multiple and overlapping health and geopolitical crises 
have led to stagnation in SDG progress globally since 
2020. At the global level, the SDG Index has stalled since 
2020 – and in 2022 is one full point below the projected 
level based on pre-pandemic trends (Figure 2.4). In LICs, 
the preliminary estimated average SDG Index score for 
2022 is lower than it was for 2021, a shift driven partly by 
estimated declines in life satisfaction and feelings of safety 
(Figure 2.5). Extreme poverty rates in LICs remain above 
pre-pandemic levels, while the percentage of surviving 
infants who have received 2 WHO-recommended 
vaccines has dropped significantly (Figures 2.6 and 2.7). 
In HICs and LICs, the pandemic and other crises have 
led to substantial declines in subjective well-being, 
which remains below pre-pandemic levels (Figure 2.8). 
Unemployment rates in both HICs and LICs is above pre-
pandemic levels, although it has increased much more in 
LICs (Figure 2.9). From a simple linear projection of past 
growth rates, the gap between SDG outcomes in HICs 
and in LICs is expected to be greater in 2030 than it was in 
2015. This is in sharp contrast to the pre-pandemic trend, 
where there was some convergence in SDG outcomes 
(Figure 2.10).

page 42:
2.3 International spillovers and policy coherence
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
31   
Above all, the SDGs represent an investment agenda: 
to develop physical infrastructure (including renewable 
energy, electrification, broadband access, public 
transport) and human capital (health, education, 
social protection). Yet many LICs and LMICs face major 
fiscal-space constraints that represent significant 
barriers to investing in the SDGs, and which the 
COVID-19 pandemic and other international crises have 
aggravated. The dashboards highlight persisting gaps 
between LICs, LMICs, and HICs in access to physical 
infrastructure and human capital. As one example, 
this year’s SDG Index includes a new indicator related 
to access to all-season roads, based on geospatial 
information. Figure 2.11 presents the 11 countries in 
which less than 50 percent of the rural population has 
access to all-season roads, and shows the gap between 
the world average and that of the HICs. 
2.3 International spillovers  
and policy coherence
The climate and biodiversity crises are driven by domestic 
action, but they are also impacted by activities that 
extend beyond national borders: through trade and 
other cross-border activities. In addition to environmental 
spillovers, which are driven by international trade and 
domestic policies, countries also generate economic, 
financial, social, and security spillovers. These spillover 
effects are captured in the SDG Index. 
Figure 2.11 
Countries where 50% or more of the rural population has no access to 
all-season roads, and comparison with HICs and World average (%)
World average 
HICs average 
Proportion of the rural population that lives within 2 km of an all-season road
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Afghanistan Congo, Dem.
Rep.
Central
African Rep.
Eritrea
Mauritania
Madagascar Papua New
Guinea
Sudan
Chad
Congo, Rep. South Sudan
Note: Proportion of the rural population that lives within 2 km of an all-season road. An all-season road is one that is motorable throughout the year 
but may be temporarily unavailable during inclement weather. New indicator included in the SDG Index building on geospatial information. SDSN 
methodology, based on Workman, R. & McPherson, K., TRL (2019). The averages for HICs and the World are weighted by population.
Source: Authors’ analysis

page 43:
32   
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
The 2030 Agenda and the SDGs recognize the 
importance of international spillovers in several 
crucial ways. SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) calls 
for ‘policy coherence’ for sustainable development, 
SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) 
stresses the need for more sustainable production and 
consumption, and SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic 
Growth) demands the eradication of child labor and 
modern slavery. The SDSN, working with partners, has 
from the start incorporated international spillovers 
in our assessment of countries’ progress towards the 
SDGs. This can explain certain differences in SDG Index 
results compared with those of other SDG monitoring 
instruments (Lafortune et al. 2020).
Overall, HICs tend to generate the largest negative 
spillovers, due to unsustainable consumption, financial 
secrecy, and the presence of tax havens. Spillover 
indicators are included in calculating the SDG Index 
and individual goal scores and dashboards, and are 
also aggregated in a stand-alone international spillover 
index. Figure 2.12 compares international spillover 
index results by income level. This year, we included an 
additional indicator that tracks cases of modern slavery 
embodied in international supply chains, building on a 
study published in 2022 (Malik et al. 2022). Major updates 
to indicators related to financial secrecy have also been 
integrated, building notably on the work of the Tax 
Justice Network. 
Environmental spillovers are driven to a large extent 
by inadequate pricing of environmental externalities, 
particularly natural capital. One step in the right 
direction is the growing adoption of the System of 
Environmental-Economic Accounting (SEEA) – an 
international statistical standard for natural capital 
accounting (UN DESA 2022). A second major driver of 
such spillovers is the fact that countries design their 
national policies to meet national objectives that 
may not incorporate the need to reduce spillovers 
and to safeguard the global commons. This makes 
environmental spillovers hard to address. SDG 17 
(Partnerships for the Goals) calls on all countries to 
enhance policy coherence for sustainable development 
(PCSD), yet we still lack a robust and comparable 
headline indicator of countries’ efforts to implement 
PCSD, despite the efforts of UNEP and the OECD to 
develop a methodology (UNEP and OECD 2022). A 
recent analysis led by SYSTEMIQ, the University of Tokyo, 
and SDSN identifies four major national policy levers 
to curb international spillovers: target setting, public 
management, regulation, and fiscal policy and financing.
Figure 2.12 
SDG Index scores versus International Spillover Index scores, by income level 
High-income countries
Upper-middle-income countries
Lower-middle-income countries
Low-income countries
SDG Index 2023
International Spillover Index 2023
From 0 (worst) to 100 (best)
From 0 (worst) to 100 (best)
Note: The list of 13 indicators included in this year’s International Spillover Index is accessible online.  
Source: Authors’ analysis

page 44:
2.3 International spillovers and policy coherence
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
33   
Source: SDSN, Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy, and Center for Global Commons at the University of Tokyo. 2023, Global Commons Stewardship Index 2022. Paris; New Haven, CT; and Tokyo.
Supply chains can stretch through multiple countries, 
and spillover impacts accumulate as they are embodied 
at multiple steps along the journey to the final 
destination country. Figure 2.13 illustrates a simplified 
example using three countries (SDSN, University of 
Tokyo, and Yale University 2023). Water stress in Country 
A and air emissions in Country B count as domestic 
impacts within those countries. Because the final 
demand is in Country C, these impacts both count as 
spillovers in Country C. Spillovers thus include more 
impacts than those embodied only in the last segment 
of the supply chain.
As one example: when considering consumption 
patterns, the textiles and clothing sector is one of 
the most substantial generators of spillovers of GHG 
emissions. Figure 2.14 indicates that, of GHG emissions 
due to global final demand for textiles and clothing, 
59 percent are emitted along the supply chains of 
countries other than those where the final products 
are consumed (i.e., spillovers), while 41 percent are 
emitted in the countries in which the final products are 
consumed (i.e., non-spillovers). These GHGs originate 
from a variety of sectors along the textiles and clothing 
supply chains of countries on the left side of the diagram, 
including the textile sector itself, electricity production, 
chemical production, and more. Of the spillover GHG 
emissions caused by the final consumption of textiles 
and clothing, the two largest destinations are the EU27 
and the United States, each accounting for 21 percent. 
Among countries whose supply chains contribute to 
producing these goods for consumption abroad, China 
generates 40 percent of the spillover GHG emissions. 
The textiles and clothing sector is also associated with 
negative socioeconomic spillovers, including accidents 
at work and child labor (Malik et al. 2021).
Figure 2.13 
Illustration of environmental impacts embodied in international trade
G
r
o
w
s
 
C
o
t
t
o
n
P
r
o
d
u
c
e
s
 
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
s
 
c
l
o
t
h
i
n
g
C
o
u
n
t
r
y
 
A
C
o
u
n
t
r
y
 
B
C
o
u
n
t
r
y
 
C
Domestic Water Stress
Domestic Air Emissions
Domestic Air Emissions
Spillover Water Stress
Embodied
Water Stress
Embodied
Air Emissions

page 45:
34   
2. The SDG Index and Dashboards
Non-Spillovers 
41%
Imported
Spillovers 
59%
Figure 2.14 
GHG emissions embodied in the final consumption of textiles and clothing
Curbing trade-related spillovers is a matter of making 
trade more sustainable and more consistent with 
the objectives of the Paris Agreement, the Global 
Biodiversity Framework, the High Seas Treaty and the 
SDGs – rather than simply restricting trade, which 
plays such a massive role in enabling developing 
countries to generate employment and socioeconomic 
development. Success requires a combination of 
better metrics and policies in importing countries that 
must be coupled with support to exporting countries, 
particularly tropical forest countries, to transition 
towards more environmentally sustainable technologies 
and development paths. Both sides – importers and 
exporters – must work closely together in partnership 
Note: The impacts occur in the countries on the left side of the diagram, while the products are ultimately consumed in the countries on the right side of the diagram (intermediate countries along supply 
chains are not shown). Of the total global GHG emissions due to demand for textiles and clothing, 59 percent are embodied in spillovers.
Source: SDSN, Yale Center for Environmental Law & Policy, and Center for Global Commons at the University of Tokyo. 2023. Global Commons Stewardship Index 2022. Paris; New Haven, CT; and Tokyo.
to tackle this shared challenge (University of Tokyo, 
Systemiq, and SDSN, 2023).
2.4 SDG Dashboards by income 
groups and major world regions
The SDG dashboards highlight each country’s strengths 
and weaknesses in relation to the 17 goals, presenting 
performance in terms of levels and trends. As described 
in the methodology section, dashboard ratings for each 
goal are based on data for the two indicators on which 
the country performs worst. Good performance on five of



===== GLOBAL_SGD2023_4_Government_Efforts_and_Commitments_for_the_SDGs =====

page 58:
47   
Government Efforts and Commitments  
to the SDGs
Part 3
The SDGs require long-term directed change and global cooperation. Long-term investment plans are 
essential for national success in meeting the goals. There was no expectation in 2015, when the SDGs and 
Agenda 2030 were adopted, that all goals and targets would be achieved at their midpoint. However, by 
2023, one would expect that most countries would have implemented ambitious policy, regulatory and 
investment frameworks compatible with achieving major SDG transformations. It could also be expected that 
all countries would have at least once documented their progress and their plans for achieving the SDGs in a 
Voluntary National Review (VNRs) presented at the United Nations.
This section discusses government commitment and 
efforts for the SDGs. It captures something different from 
the SDG Index. A country facing a large gap to conquer 
on the SDG Index may have introduced ambitious 
policy frameworks that are likely to lead to future SDG 
breakthroughs – especially if these policies and planned 
investments are supported by adequate financing. As 
such, this assessment of government commitment and 
efforts for the SDGs is more “forward-looking”. Compared 
with outcome statistics, however, input and process 
statistics are less internationally standardized and rely on 
more qualitative information and expert judgement. 
Nation-states continue to hold the primary responsibility 
for achieving the SDGs. This section focuses primarily 
on the executive branch at the federal/national level, 
although we briefly discuss how regions and cities can 
also use the SDGs as a strategy and monitoring frame-
work. Other SDSN reports discuss subnational SDG 
progress and challenges at length. Building on earlier work 
conducted by the SDSN (Sachs et al, 2018–2022; Lafortune 
et al, 2022), we conceptualize government efforts for the 
SDGs using a three-pillar framework: (1) political leader-
ship and institutional coordination; (2) SDG integration in 
sectoral policies and long-term pathways; and (3) commit-
ment to multilateralism under the UN Charter (see Figure 
3.1). For each pillar, we present proxy indicators that build 
on a combination of qualitative survey tools, third-party 
data, and data scraped from online institutional resources. 
We include results for each pillar, which we aggregate into 
an overall score for “government efforts and commitments 
for the SDGs”. Building on close cooperation with SDSN 
national and regional networks and other partners, we 
cover this year 74 countries from various income groups 
and world regions.
A detailed database and additional technical information 
are available online. This remains largely a work in 
progress, and we welcome feedback and comments on 
the selected indicators and methodology (see more at 
www.sdgtransformationcenter.org). 
3.1 Political leadership and 
institutional coordination: 
results from the 2023 SDSN 
survey of government efforts 
for the SDGs
The SDGs have a significant impact on public 
management practices and procedures (SDSN and 
OECD, 2019). Every year since 2018, SDSN has called on 
its global network of experts to track public statements 
by governments and their strategic use of public 
processes to support the SDGs. This information is 
collected through a survey of national coordination and 
implementation mechanisms at the central/federal level 
of government. The survey evaluates whether the SDGs 
are used and mentioned in official speeches, strategies, 
monitoring systems, budgets, and other public processes. 
It provides an overarching assessment of national/
federal government efforts to embrace the SDG agenda 
which is complemented by a more granular assessment 
of the alignment of sectoral policies, regulations, 
and investments for the SDGs (presented in the next 
sub-section).

page 59:
48   
Part 3. Government Efforts and Commitments
This year’s survey covers 74 countries (14 more than 
in 2022) plus the European Union. It includes all G20 
countries, most OECD members, most countries with 
a population greater than 100 million inhabitants, and 
several LICs, LMICs, UMICs, HICs, and SIDS. Overall, these 
74 countries represent nearly 85 percent of the world’s 
population. Survey results are presented in Table 3.1. Data 
were collected and analyzed in close partnership with 
SDSN’s global network, and results have been shared with 
UN Permanent Missions for comment prior to publication.
The key finding from this survey is that, seven years after 
the adoption of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs, most 
governments have signaled “soft” SDG integration into 
their public management practices and procedures – 
although there is significant variation across countries 
– yet “hard” SDG integration is generally missing, including 
the use of the SDGs to support long-term budget and 
investment frameworks. By July 2023, all UN Member 
States will have presented a VNR except for Haiti, 
Myanmar, South Sudan, the United States and Yemen. 
Most VNRs identify SDG priorities and actions within 
country borders, but fail to accurately capture efforts to 
curb negative international spillovers and the potential 
transboundary impacts of their policies. In general, 
our findings echo other research published over the 
past twelve months, showing continued gaps in SDG 
leadership and institutionalization (Biermann et al, 2022; 
Kotzé et al, 2022; IGS, 2023). Further integration of goal-
based sustainable development into public management 
processes, supported by long-term, science-based 
pathways, remains a top priority in most countries if they 
are to achieve SDG breakthroughs by 2030 and beyond.
Official high-level speeches and the preparation of VNRs 
(as the official government-led process to report on SDG 
progress, gaps, and policy efforts) provide relevant proxies 
to gauge political commitment to the SDGs. Between 
January 2022 and April 2023, 64 percent of the countries 
surveyed reinforced their commitment to the SDGs 
in an official speech or statement by the head of state 
(president or prime minister) – an increase from 2022, 
SDG Integration 
into Sectoral 
Policies & 
Pathways
Commitment to 
Multilateralism under 
the UN Charter
Political 
Leadership & 
Institutional 
Coordination 
for the SDGs
Figure 3.1  
A conceptual framework to evaluate government efforts and commitment to the SDGs

page 62:
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
51   
3.1 Political leadership and institutional coordination: results from 
the 2023 SDSN survey of government efforts for the SDGs
when only 57 percent of surveyed countries had done so 
– and since 2016, 188 UN Member States have prepared 
VNRs (see Figure 3.2). Forty countries have committed 
to submitting a VNR this year: two will be presenting a 
VNR for the first time, 37 for the second time, and one for 
the third time. Two countries – Togo and Uruguay – have 
submitted four VNRs since 2016. Two non-UN-members 
(the European Union and Palestine) have or will also 
submit VNRs. At the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, only 
five countries have never submitted a VNR, among them 
the United States (HLPF, 2023). 
On institutional coordination, we find that a large 
majority of countries have appointed a lead unit or 
agency to coordinate the SDGs, but only around a third 
of the countries surveyed locate this unit at the center 
of government (in cabinet offices or within the offices of 
the President or Prime Minister) (Figure 3.3). The majority 
position it in a central ministry (of economy, planning, 
public administration, or environment, for example), while 
Spain has a dedicated Ministry of Social Rights and the 
2030 Agenda. The survey does not evaluate, in practice, 
the effectiveness and influence of such coordination 
mechanisms and units in driving a whole-of-government 
approach to SDG implementation. 
A large majority of governments – 83 percent of those 
surveyed – have published some form of strategic vision 
and/or action plan to implement the goals. For many, 
this takes the form of a national sustainability strategy 
explicitly linked to the 2030 Agenda goals and targets. 
Some countries take a mainstreaming approach, where 
SDGs are implemented by each government ministry 
within the scope of its mandate (instead of via an 
overarching national action plan). The mainstreaming 
approach was used by the European Union, which also 
adopted the European Green Deal as its main strategic 
roadmap for achieving sustainable development. Our 
survey cannot evaluate the breadth or actualization of 
these strategic visions and action plans, although SDSN 
has published a detailed analysis of SDG integration 
in post-COVID-19 recovery and resilience plans in the 
European Union (Lafortune et al., 2021). The next sub-
section goes beyond references to SDG and describes 
persistent gaps in sectoral policy measures for major SDG 
transformations in greater detail. 
Most countries surveyed had also defined SDG monitoring 
systems. More than two-thirds (68 percent) have adapted 
the SDG framework to their context and identified a set 
of nationally relevant indicators. Often these are aligned 
with official United Nations SDG indicators or represent 
a subset of them. Some countries have also developed 
localized indicators that account for country contexts. 
For example, France has a national dashboard of 98 SDG 
indicators, adopted after several rounds of consultations, 
which includes indicators that go beyond the official 
UN SDG indicator framework. France also contributes to 
global statistical efforts by working with UN agencies to 
report data points across all 231 official global indicators. 
An average of 136 indicators are included in national 
frameworks for monitoring the SDGs. Many countries have 
also developed online platforms to report on progress 
towards the goals. The survey does not evaluate the 
integration and influence of such monitoring tools within 
broader policy, regulatory, and budget cycles, however 
it has recently been suggested that SDG monitoring 
frameworks so far suffer from insufficient linkages to 
policy implementation as well as low overall visibility 
(Lepenies et al, 2023). Supreme audit institutions and 
parliamentary processes have also been used in some 
countries to track efforts to implement the SDGs (Office of 
the Auditor General of Canada, 2018 and 2021; INTOSAI, 
2019; European Parliament, 2022).
As in previous years, there is some discrepancy between 
expressed political support for the SDGs and integration 
of the goals into strategic public policy processes, espe-
cially long-term budget and investment frameworks. A 
little over a third of governments surveyed (36 percent) 
mention the SDGs or use related terms in their latest 
official budget document. Among these 27 countries, 
less than half go beyond this to include the SDGs in a 
dedicated section, budget lines, or allocation. Some 
countries specifically refer to the SDGs in their national 
budget to support domestic SDG implementation 
nationally (including through national health, edu-
cation, social protection, or economic development 
reforms), abroad (for example, in aid allocation or 
foreign policy), or both. Looking ahead, establishing 
stronger connections between SDG gaps, targets, 
monitoring systems, and multi-year budget allocations 
remains an important priority.

page 65:
54   
Part 3. Government Efforts and Commitments
As G20 countries represent two-thirds of the world’s 
population and 85 percent of global GDP, integrating 
the SDGs into their governance systems is particularly 
important. Compared with other countries, G20 countries 
tend to lag in several aspects of institutional leadership for 
the SDGs, including explicit political support in speeches 
and monitoring and coordination mechanisms. The 
integration of the SDGs in national budget processes could 
be strengthened in most countries, and especially in LICs 
and LMICs, where less a third of the countries surveyed 
refer to the SDGs in their national budgets – either in the 
narrative or as a dedicated section or budget line. 
3.2 SDG integration into sectoral 
policies and pathways: 
scorecards for the Six SDG 
Transformations 
The SDGs require long-term directed change, with long-
term investment plans essential for national success in 
meeting the goals. SDSN has recommended six inter-
related long-term transformations: 
1.	 Universal quality education and innovation-based 
economy
2.	 Universal health coverage 
3.	 Zero-carbon energy systems
4.	 Sustainable ecosystems, sustainable agriculture, and 
climate resilience
5.	 Sustainable cities
6.	 Transformation to universal digital access and services
Each of these challenges requires large-scale public 
and private investments to mid-century. Each requires a 
technological transformation. Each requires a financing 
strategy to underpin the investment plans and monitoring 
systems. None can be solved by the private sector alone. 
Governments must take the lead in all six areas to design 
policy and financial frameworks within which business 
can profitably invest and innovate. 
Building on the work of previous Sustainable Development 
Reports, we present here an updated and improved 
version of the SDG Transformation scorecards, to evaluate 
how the SDGs are being integrated into sectoral plans. 
Each scorecard consists of a collection of headline policy 
and investment measures to track SDG implementation. 
These scorecards complement the SDG Index, which is 
based on outcome data (for example, on poverty rates, life 
expectancy, and CO₂ emissions). At the international level, 
such measures of outcome tend to present significant time 
lags: they may not adequately reflect the impact of trans-
formative policies and investments that governments have 
introduced since the adoption of the SDGs, and which 
often yield results only in the medium or long term. The 
scorecards instead focus on the enabling legal, regulatory, 
and investment conditions needed to achieve the SDGs 
and the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement.
This exercise has several caveats and limitations. First, 
internationally comparable policy trackers and measures 
(such as laws, regulations, investments, and subsidies) tend 
to be less available than international outcome data. They 
rely on more qualitative methods and require an advanced 
understanding of policy areas and country policies and 
contexts (generally, more comparable policy trackers 
and measures are available for OECD countries than for 
others). Second, policy efforts need to be interpreted with 
an understanding of national challenges and contexts (for 
instance, the absence of advanced cybersecurity policies 
matters less in a country with low internet access and poor 
digital infrastructure). Third, apart from a few exceptions, 
government pledges and policies do not capture their 
effective implementation. And fourth, targets or thresholds 
to gauge policy ambitions are not always clearly defined. 
The rest of this section provides a brief overview of 
countries’ policy efforts and commitments relating to 
achieving the six SDG Transformations, and highlights 
where more research and policy trackers are required to 
broaden our understanding of national SDG efforts. We 
present detailed results for the G20 countries, along with 
population-weighted averages by geographic region and 
income group. Detailed information on indicator sources, 
thresholds and results for all 193 UN Member States are 
accessible online.

page 66:
Transformation 2: Universal health coverage 
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
55   
Transformation 1: Universal quality 
education and innovation-based 
economy 
Education builds human capital, which in turn promotes 
economic growth, innovation, decent work, and the 
elimination of extreme poverty, and helps overcome 
gender and other inequalities. Countries must further 
expand and transform education systems. SDG target 4.1 
calls for universal access to 12 years of free primary and 
secondary education, with at least 9 years compulsory. 
This scorecard shows that many countries around 
the world currently fall short of this target. To reduce 
inequalities, governments also need to expand social 
safety nets. These should be complemented by anti-
discrimination measures (including those furthering 
gender equality); improved labor standards; and measures 
to end all forms of modern slavery, trafficking, and child 
labor. Investments in research and development will also 
help to promote economic growth, which can contribute 
to reducing inequalities. 
Looking ahead, a lead global indicator must be 
established to assess country efforts to strengthen their 
population’s and students’ knowledge of sustainable 
development and their ability to navigate an information-
rich environment. This is important to achieve long-term 
science-based transformations of all economies, and to 
build up public support and accountability. According to 
the OECD, only one in 10 students in OECD countries can 
distinguish between fact and opinion (OECD, 2018). 
Transformation 2: Universal health 
coverage 
This Transformation promotes key investments in health 
and well-being. It aligns closely with SDG Target 3.8, 
achieving universal health coverage and ensuring that 
all people have access to the health services they need. 
In the SDGs, universal health care (UHC) is considered a 
target in itself. For the SDG Transformation scorecards, 
however, we consider UHC an enabler (input) for greater 
health outcomes. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
WHO and other international institutions had lamented 
the slow pace of progress towards achieving universal 
health coverage (WHO, 2019). Compared with the rest 
of the world, a higher percentage of people in OECD 
countries tend to be covered by public or mandatory 
private health insurance, and incidence rates of 
catastrophic out-of-pocket health expenditures are lower 
– although there are exceptions, including Mexico, Costa 
Rica, Poland, and the United States. 
The SDGs also call on all countries to strengthen their 
capacities for early warning, risk reduction, and the 
management of national and global health risks (SDG 
target 3.d). As a measure of pandemic preparedness, the 
Global Health Security Index turned out to be a rather 
poor predictor of effective early response to COVID-19, as 
measured by the number of cases and deaths (Lafortune, 
2020), indicating that important factors are at play that are 
not yet adequately captured by existing policy trackers. 
Nevertheless, we have not identified a better policy-
focused indicator of pandemic preparedness. In the 
context of the High-Level Pandemic Summit to take place 
in September 2023 and the forthcoming global pandemic 
treaty, it remains vital to define solid international 
measures and monitoring systems that can better 
gauge countries’ preparedness for global health security 
threats. But it is also important to address drivers that 
can lead to the emergence of new pathogens, including 
environmental drivers, through “One Health” approaches 
(Sachs et al, 2022; McKee et al, 2021).

page 69:
58   
Part 3. Government Efforts and Commitments
Transformation 3: Zero-carbon 
energy systems
This Transformation aims to ensure universal access to 
modern energy sources; decarbonize the energy system 
by mid-century (in line with the Paris Agreement); and 
reduce industrial pollution of soil, water, and air. More 
than 130 countries are signatories to the UN Climate 
Ambition Alliance, and more than 50 have anchored 
their net-zero commitment in a law or policy document 
(Net Zero Tracker, 2023; UNFCCC, 2022). By September 
2022, 139 countries had submitted or updated nationally 
determined contributions (NDCs), with studies finding 
that new and updated NDCs present more ambitious 
emission-reduction targets and planning (WRI, 2022). 
There continues to be a major discrepancy between coun-
tries’ self-declared ambitions and their tangible efforts and 
policies. The Climate Action Tracker, an independent scien-
tific analysis of governments’ climate actions, finds that no 
single G20 country has adopted a sufficient mix of policies 
and actions to achieve the Paris Climate Agreement objec-
tives, with only the United Kingdom reaching an “almost 
sufficient” level of policy (Climate Action Tracker, 2022). 
Many countries continue to provide substantial subsidies 
for fossil fuels, undermining their initiatives to decarbonize 
the energy system, such as the United States’ Inflation 
Reduction Act (IRA) and the European Union’s Net Zero 
Industry Act (NZIA) (DGAP 2023). While comparable coun-
try-level data are not yet available, the IEA has concluded 
that global fossil-fuel consumption subsidies rose sharply 
in 2022, as governments attempted to shield consumers 
from rising energy bills (IEA 2023, OECD 2022).
Transformation 4: Sustainable 
ecosystems, sustainable 
agriculture, and climate resilience
Unsustainable consumption is strongly interconnected 
with diets, land-use policies, and the health of major 
ecosystems. This is why Transformation 4 calls for 
integrated transformations to address dietary shifts, 
biodiversity, agricultural systems, and land-use policies. 
Bringing these elements together is a main difference 
between the Six Transformations and the “six entry 
points for action” presented in the Global Sustainable 
Development Report (GSDR, 2023), which treats “Sustainable 
Food Systems and Healthy Nutrition” and the “Global 
Environmental Commons” as two separate entry points. 
Today’s land-use practices and food systems have led to 
persistent hunger, malnutrition, and obesity. They account 
for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, over 90 percent 
of scarcity-weighted water use, most biodiversity loss, 
the overexploitation of fish populations, eutrophication 
through nutrient overload, and the pollution of our water 
and air. Food systems are also highly vulnerable to climate 
change and land degradation: integrated strategies are vital 
to ensure that these systems, along with land-use practices 
and ocean ecosystems, are sustainable and healthy for 
people. The Convention on Biological Diversity, adopted 
in December 2022 during the 15th Convention of Parties in 
Canada, calls to protect and conserve at least 30 percent 
of terrestrial, inland water and coastal and marine areas by 
2030, “especially areas of particular importance for biodiver-
sity and ecosystem functions and services” (UN, 2022). 
UNEP estimates that 84 percent of Parties to the UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) have 
now adopted climate adaptation plans, strategies, laws, 
and policies (UNEP, 2022). But there is a significant gap in 
funding these measures. Annual adaptation funding needs 
are expected to reach US$160 billion to US$340 billion by 
2030, and US$315 billion to US$565 billion by 2050 (UNEP, 
2022). Establishing mechanisms to ensure that the burden 
of financing human-induced adaptation is shared fairly and 
globally, and that the countries responsible pay the costs 
of loss and damages, remains an important priority for the 
international community.
The SDSN is highly committed to supporting global 
and national efforts to develop sustainable food and 
land systems, preserve major ecosystems, and ensure 
adequate finance for nature and climate adaptation. 
In close collaboration with the Food and Land Use 
Coalition (FOLU), the SDSN’s FABLE and FELD projects 
provide support for long-term, sustainable food and 
land use pathways and policies. Despite the recognized 
importance of decarbonizing agriculture and enhancing 
carbon sinks towards achieving the objectives of the 
Paris Climate Agreement, FELD recently documented the 
limited integration of food and land policies into NDCs 
(FELD, 2022). Other flagship projects include the Global 
Commons Stewardship Initiative (led by the Center for 
Global Commons at the University of Tokyo in cooperation 
with SDSN and other partners) and the Science Panel for 
the Amazon (CGC, SDSN and Yale, 2023; CGC, SYSTEMIQ, 
SDSN et al, 2022). Considering the complexity and far-
reaching nature of this Transformation, we are not yet in a 
position to present a scorecard for Transformation 4.

page 71:
60   
Part 3. Government Efforts and Commitments
Transformation 5: Sustainable cities 
Cities and other urban areas are home to around 
55 percent of humanity, and account for 70 percent 
of global economic output. By 2050, these shares will 
increase to 70 and 85 percent, respectively (Jiang and 
O’Neill, 2017). The OECD estimates that 105 of the 
169 SDG targets will not be reached without sufficiently 
engaging sub-national governments (OECD, 2020). the 
COVID-19 pandemic has had lasting impacts on urban 
mobility, land use, property values, and transport systems 
in developed and developing countries alike. Many 
urban organizations and associations have mainstreamed 
the SDGs into their work programs, including C40, 
UN-Habitat, United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG), 
and Local Governments for Sustainability (ICLEI), as well 
as the OECD’s Centre for Entrepreneurship, SMEs, Cities 
and Regions.
By design, Transformation 5 calls for regional and local 
policy trackers. These would notably track efforts at the 
regional and city level to curb urban pollution, increase 
housing affordability, and strengthen mobility and 
access to public transport. Other policy measures could 
Box 3.1 The OECD, SDSN and the European Committee of the Regions survey of city 
and regional SDG policies in a time of crisis
The survey focused on impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine on SDG implementation at the subnational 
level. Questions explored policy measures to address rising costs of living (SDGs 1, 2, 11, 13), energy costs (SDG 7) and food prices 
(SDG 2), which have emerged as political priorities across the world.
The responses from over 250 governments and territorial stakeholders will be used to support the OECD program “A Territorial 
Approach to the SDGs”. An OECD-SDSN policy paper and a CoR map on city and regional commitment to the SDGs will be 
presented at the UN High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development – where progress on SDG 11 (Sustainable Cities) is 
being reviewed – and at the September 2023 SDG Summit. 
More than half of the 192 local and regional governments surveyed have a dedicated SDG strategy or action plan and a similar 
percentage use indicators to track SDG progress (as of April 2023). Other survey questions looked at the types of data used by 
cities and regions to track progress, challenges and success factors, and explored specific policy initiatives related to SDGs 2 and 7.
Source: 2023 OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in an uncertain geopolitical context
Figure 3.5 
Percentage of local and regional governments using selected SDG policies and actions 
Awareness raising campaigns
A dedicated Strategy or Action Plan
Use of indicators to track progress
An internal structure working across 
services and horizontally
A sustainable development council or similar 
attached to a high level decision maker
Other
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70

page 72:
Transformation 6: Universal digital access and services
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
61   
be considered proxies of local government commitment 
to achieving the triple objective of being economically 
productive, socially inclusive, and environmentally 
sustainable. SDSN is working with local partners to 
strengthen policy frameworks in regions and cities, and 
to reinforce the science-policy interface at the subna-
tional level.
In early 2023, the OECD, SDSN, and the European Committee 
of the Regions (CoR) conducted a survey to take stock of city 
and regional SDG progress. Previous surveys on the topic 
were conducted by the OECD and the CoR in 2019 and 2020. 
Transformation 6: Universal digital 
access and services
Artificial intelligence and other digital technologies 
are disrupting almost every sector of the economy: 
agriculture (precision agriculture), mining (autonomous 
vehicles), manufacturing (robotics), retail (e-commerce), 
finance (e-payments, trading strategies), media (social 
networks), health (diagnostics, telemedicine), education 
(online learning), public administration (e-governance, 
e-voting), and more recently, clerical, drafting, research 
and creative work (generative AI), as well as other fields in 
science and technology. 
Digital technologies can raise productivity, lower produc-
tion costs, reduce emissions, expand access, dematerialize 
production, improve matching in markets, enable the use 
of big and unconventional data, and make public services 
more readily available. They can also improve resource-
use efficiencies, support the circular economy, enable 
zero-carbon energy systems, help monitor and protect 
ecosystems, and assume other critical roles in support of 
the SDGs. Yet the disruptive nature of new technologies 
calls for deliberative exchanges and consultations with 
multiple stakeholders and careful assessment of distribu-
tional impacts and trade-offs.
Countries face different challenges depending on the 
maturity of their digital infrastructure and technologies. 
Less-connected countries especially need to invest to 
provide widespread, affordable internet access and 
promote digital literacy. Yet issues surrounding privacy, 
cybersecurity, e-government, digital inclusion, and the 
robustness of digital regulatory frameworks concern 
all countries. 
The Transformation 6 scorecard builds on the World 
Bank’s Digitalization for Development policy framework 
(World Bank, 2022). It aims to capture efforts made 
to strengthen digital infrastructure, data security, and 
government platforms and services, as well as the 
promotion of key enablers such as digital literacy and 
privacy and inclusiveness (including bringing a social 
and gender perspective to digital and technology 
policies). For now, the scorecard captures a subset of 
these different elements: we aim to improve coverage 
over time. UN DESA’s Online Services Index assesses the 
quality of government provision of online services; 
the ITU’s ICT Regulatory Tracker is a composite score 
of regulatory and competition framework for the 
ICT sector; UNCTAD’s Global Cyberlaw tracker maps 
legislation on e-commerce, consumer and data 
protection and cybercrime; and, finally, the Inclusive 
Internet Index’s policy score assesses a set of policies 
on digital inclusion for women and children and safety 
and privacy, as well as policies aiming to increase 
broadband and 5G access.
Further analyses will be needed to capture policies and 
regulations supporting “last-mile inclusion”, particularly 
in relation to financial services and digital literacy, 
and participation and trust in digital institutions (BCG 
2020, Morell-Ducós 2021, Shree, S., Pratap, B., Saroy, R. 
2021, CGAP/World Bank 2020). Trackers are also needed 
to better gauge the quality of internet regulations, 
measure access to e-government services and evaluate 
their quality, and to assess government readiness to 
respond to and to prevent cybersecurity threats.

page 74:
3.3 Support for multilateralism under the Charter of the United Nations 
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
63   
3.3 Support for multilateralism 
under the Charter of the 
United Nations 
Achieving the SDGs requires global cooperation under 
the UN Charter. The Charter, signed in 1945, is the 
founding document of the United Nations. It codifies 
the major principles of international relations, from the 
sovereign equality of States to the prohibition of the 
use of force in international relations. Climate change, 
peace, cybersecurity, reliable data and information, and 
pandemic prevention and response all depend on close 
collaboration across countries and a strong multilateral 
system, while global supply chains and financial flows 
can either support or undermine countries’ efforts to 
achieve the SDGs. The 2015 Declaration, Transforming 
our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
recalls that:
“Seventy years ago, an earlier generation of world 
leaders came together to create the United Nations. 
From the ashes of war and division they fashioned 
this Organization and the values of peace, dialogue 
and international cooperation which underpin it. 
The supreme embodiment of those values is the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
The SDGs are not only a public policy framework; they 
are an ethical imperative grounded in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, which celebrates its 75th 
anniversary this year. The SDGs are based on the core 
premises of the Universal Declaration, that, “All human 
beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights 
… and should act towards one another in a spirit of 
brotherhood,” and that “it is essential to promote the 
development of friendly relations between nations”. In 
2022, the United Nations Secretary-General appointed a 
High-Level Advisory Board on Effective Multilateralism, 
with a mandate to develop a list of concrete, actionable 
recommendations to improve international cooperation 
and advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. We therefore consider that promoting 
multilateralism and global cooperation under the UN 
Charter is an important component of countries’ efforts 
and commitments for the SDGs.
This section is an attempt to take stock of countries’ efforts 
to adhere to the values and principles of multilateralism 
in order to achieve sustainable development. To our 
knowledge, there is currently no overarching measure 
that captures the many dimensions of support for 
multilateralism. The International Peace Institute’s 2022 
Index of Multilateralism explored the state of multilateralism 
globally, but it did not compare country engagement 
(IPI, 2022). Other reports focus on mapping the size of 
diplomatic networks or measuring specific aspects of 
multilateral efforts (e.g., peace or official development 
assistance). The assessment presented this year is a pilot 
that we aim to improve and expand in coming years. We 
welcome comments and feedback. 
We present a variety of proxy indicators to gauge countries’ 
ratification of UN treaties, their membership in UN 
institutions, unilateral sanctions they have adopted against 
other UN Member States, and their efforts to promote 
global solidarity – including international financial flows 
– and peace. In most cases, we aim to capture the latest 
period (2018–2022) or the latest available data points. 
The variables related to the ratification of treaties and the 
adoption of unilateral coercive measures cover 1946–2022 
and 1950–2021respectively. This assessment is based 
on UN databases and several third-party sources. For 
presentational reasons, the tables and charts cover only 
OECD, G20, and large economies. The full database and 
additional material are accessible online. 
Percentage of UN Treaties ratified: This indicator covers 
all Conventions, International Conventions, and Agreements 
adopted by the United Nations from 1946–2022, including 
those adopted before 1946 that were later added to the 
UN Treaty system. It excludes Protocols, Optional Protocols, 
and Amendments, as well as Conventions that were later 
terminated or only applied to a small number of countries. 
For each of the 150 treaties, we recorded whether Member 
States had signed or ratified them. Signature of a treaty is 
not legally binding, whereas ratification (or acceptance, 
accession, definitive signature, and succession) is legally 
binding. The indicator for the percentage of UN treaties 
ratified (all international) shows the percentage of these 
150 treaties that each Member State has ratified, whereas 
the percentage of UN treaties ratified (selective) indicator 
shows the percentage each country has ratified of a select

page 76:
3.3 Support for multilateralism under the Charter of the United Nations 
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
65   
list of 58 treaties. This shorter list includes only those treaties 
ratified by more than 50 percent of UN Member States. 
Austria, Hungary, Italy, Nigeria, Spain, and Sweden have 
ratified more than 98 percent of all treaties in the selective 
list. By contrast, Ethiopia, Indonesia, Israel, Saudi Arabia, 
and the United States have ratified less than 75 percent 
(selective list) (Figure 3.6). 
Unilateral coercive measures (UCMs): This indicator 
reviews the adoption by UN Member States of unilateral 
sanctions against another UN Member State. Several UN 
resolutions stress that unilateral coercive measures and 
practices are “contrary to international law, international 
humanitarian law, the UN Charter and the norms and 
principles governing peaceful relations among States, and 
highlight that on long-term, these measures may result 
in social problems and raise humanitarian concerns in 
the States targeted.”1 In 2014, the Human Rights Council 
created the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the 
negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the 
enjoyment of human rights.
Since 1966, the Security Council has established 
31 sanctions regimes: in Southern Rhodesia, South Africa, 
the former Yugoslavia (2), Haiti (2), Angola, Liberia (3), Eritrea/
Ethiopia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Côte d’Ivoire, Iran, Somalia/
Eritrea, Iraq (2), the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Sudan, Lebanon, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Libya (2), Guinea-Bissau, Central African Republic, Yemen, 
South Sudan and Mali, as well as sanctions on ISIL (Da’esh) 
and Al-Qaida, and the Taliban. The famous 1977 United 
Nations Security Council Resolution 418 unanimously 
imposed a sanctions regime against Apartheid South Africa. 
The data on UCMs presented in this report come from the 
Drexel Global Sanctions Database (V3, March 2023), which 
provides information on sanctions adopted against other 
countries, including the beginning and final year of sanction 
imposition. Here we present sanctions adopted unilaterally 
from 1950 to 2021 that are still in place as of 2022. For our 
purposes, a sanction is considered unilateral if it has not 
been approved by the UN Security Council, even if it is 
imposed by multiple countries. Percentages represent the 
share of all sanctions that a country or region has adopted 
1.	 https://www.ohchr.org/en/special-procedures/sr-unilateral-coercive-measures 
to 2021. For EU member states, for example, this includes EU 
sanctions as well as sanctions that the country has imposed 
individually. Sanctions imposed by the European Union 
after Brexit were allocated as separate sanctions for the UK.
Membership and participation in selected United 
Nations organizations: This indicator captures 
membership in 24 United Nations organizations: all 
15 specialized agencies, all 6 United Nations funds 
and programmes, the UN Conference on Trade and 
Development (UNCTAD), the UN Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the World Trade 
Organization (WTO). These organizations were selected 
to represent a broad range of issues related to sustainable 
development (education, health, finance, trade, 
telecommunication, and industrial policies), as well as 
including all of the specialized agencies.
UN Specialized Agencies: the Food and Agriculture 
Organization (FAO); the International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO); the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD); the International Labour 
Organization (ILO); the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF); the International Maritime Organization (IMO); the 
International Telecommunication Union (ITU); the UN 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); 
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization 
(UNIDO); the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO); the 
Universal Postal Union (UPU; the World Health Organization 
(WHO); the World Intellectual Property Organization 
(WIPO); the World Meteorological Organization (WMO); 
and the World Bank Group – including the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the 
International Development Association (IDA), and the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC). United Nations 
funds and programmes: UN Development Programme 
(UNDP), UN Environment Programme (UNEP), UN 
Population Fund (UNFPA), UN Human Settlements 
Programme (UN-HABITAT), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 
World Food Programme (WFP). 
Memberships were verified as of May 2023 via each 
organization’s website. Several OECD countries are no 
longer members of UNIDO; the United States and Israel 
withdrew funding to UNESCO in 2011 and withdrew their 
membership in 2019.

page 81:
70   
Part 3. Government Efforts and Commitments
Militarization and participation in conflicts: This 
indicator aims to capture countries’ efforts to promote 
and preserve peace. It identifies countries’ level of military 
build-up and access to weapons, as well as their participa-
tion in ongoing domestic and military conflicts. It builds 
on data provided in the Global Peace Index 2022 (compiled 
by the Institute for Economics and Peace). The Ongoing 
Conflict Score builds on six indicators to investigate the 
extent to which countries are involved in internal and 
external conflicts, as well as their role and the duration of 
their Involvement. The Militarization Score reflects coun-
tries’ level of military build-up and access to weapons, 
as well as their level of peacefulness, both domestically 
and internationally. Comparable data on military expen-
diture as a percentage of GDP and the number of armed 
service officers per capita are gauged, as are financial 
contributions to United Nations peacekeeping missions. 
Overall, among G20, OECD and large countries, Czechia, 
Iceland, Ireland, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Portugal 
obtain the highest (best) scores, whereas Israel and the 
Russian Federation obtain the lowest (worst) scores. 
International Solidarity and Financing: We present 
data compiled by the OECD on Official Development 
Assistance (ODA) as a headline indicator of international 
solidarity. In 2022, only five DAC members – Denmark, 
Germany, Luxembourg, Norway, and Sweden – had met or 
exceeded the 0.7 percent ODA target. When computing 
overall scores, we use the average ratio of ODA/GNI over 
the past five years (Figure 3.10). In 2022, ODA rose by 
13.6 percent in real terms, driven primarily by the sharp 
increase of in-donor refugee costs (OECD, 2023b).
•	Voluntary National Reviews
•	Official speeches by country 
leaders making reference to the 
SDGs
•	SDG coordination unit in 
government
•	National SDG strategy (or 
sustainable development 
strategy)
•	National SDG monitoring system
•	SDGs referenced in annual 
national budget
•	Universal quality education and 
innovation-based economy
•	Universal health coverage 
•	Zero-carbon energy systems
•	Sustainable ecosystems, 
sustainable agriculture, and 
climate resilience
•	Sustainable cities
•	Transformation to universal 
digital access and services
•	Ratification of UN Treaties
•	Membership in major UN 
organizations
•	Promotion of demilitarization 
and global peace
•	Use of unilateral coercive 
measures
•	Official Development Assistance 
(for OECD/HICs)
Political Leadership &  
Institutional Coordination
The SDGs are referenced & used in political 
speeches and institutional processes
SDG Integration into Sectoral 
Policies & Pathways
Ambitious policy, regulatory and investment 
frameworks to achieve the  
Six SDG Transformations
Commitment to Multilateralism  
under the UN Charter
Countries promote global cooperation  
for sustainable development 
Figure 3.11 
Conceptual Framework for Evaluating Government Efforts and Commitments to Implement the SDGs and 
Indicators Retained to Compute the Overall Score for 2023
Note: For Pillar 2, the indicators listed correspond to the overall score for each Transformation Scorecard. This year, we could not compute scores for Transformation 4 (Sustainable ecosystems, sustainable 
agriculture, and climate resilience) and Transformation 5 (Sustainable cities). Under pillar 3, the use of unilateral coercive measures correspond to measures adopted over the period 1950 to 2021 that are still 
in place in 2022. They exclude measures adopted since January, 1 2022 and measures supported by UN resolutions. Political leadership and institutional coordination is weighted 50% of the total score, SDG 
integration into sectoral policies and pathways is weighted 40%, and the pilot score for multilateralism counts for 10% (as this latter pillar remains a pilot this year). A Monte Carlo simulation is accessible 
online showing how scores would vary with different weighting systems. Other sensitivity tests are also provided, including various aggregation methods (geometric mean vs arithmetic mean). Further 
information is accessible on sdgindex.org. 
Source: Authors analysis

page 82:
3.4 Government effort and commitments for the SDGs: overall scores
3. Government Efforts & Commitments 
71   
3.4 Government effort and 
commitments for the SDGs: 
overall scores
Building on the Six Transformations scorecards, the SDSN 
survey of government efforts for the SDGs, and a subset of 
variables related to government support for multilateralism 
under the United Nations Charter, we present here overall 
scores rating government efforts and commitment to the 
SDGs. These scores range from 0 (very low SDG commit-
ment) to 100 (very high SDG commitment) and cover all 
74 countries in the 2023 SDG Policy Coordination Survey 
presented in section 3.1, including all G20 members and 
most OECD countries. Scores draw on 29 indicators of 
policy efforts and commitment. Since the 2022 pilot, we 
have added four new indicators on digitalization and five on 
engagement with multilateralism. We have also made some 
methodological changes: these are explained in greater 
detail in a technical annex available online, which also 
discusses the full list of indicators, the weighting scheme 
applied, and various sensitivity tests used in developing 
these scores. We welcome critical comments and feedback 
that may help to strengthen future iterations of this work.
At the midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, we draw five major 
conclusions from this comprehensive assessment of 
policy efforts and commitment to the SDGs (Table 3.6). 
First, government efforts and commitment to the SDGs 
remains far too low. The average score of the 74 countries 
assessed is 56 percent, with none even close to obtaining 
a perfect score. Second, there are major differences across 
countries. Four European countries stand out as being 
very committed to the SDGs (Finland, the Netherlands, 
Sweden, and Switzerland), but scores among the G20 
countries range from 77 percent in Indonesia to less 
than 40 percent in the Russian Federation and the 
United States. Third, of the three pillars, scores are on 
average lowest for the second one, related to adopting 
and implementing SDG policies and pathways. This is 
driven in part by the moderate or low performance of 
LICs and LMICs on this pillar, as these countries may lack 
the financial resources needed to successfully adopt and 
implement SDG investments and pathways. The HICs’ 
somewhat better performance on pillar 2 is largely due 
to their strong performance on the education, health and 
digital scorecards. More ambitious policies and actions 
on climate and decarbonization are needed. (This year’s 
edition does not track efforts on sustainable food and 
land-use transformation, which is an important research 
agenda at the SDSN.) Fourth, LICs and LMICs score more 
highly on political leadership and institutional leadership 
for the SDGs than HICs. Fifth, all countries can do more to 
promote multilateralism, in line with the United Nations 
Charter. Argentina, Barbados, Chile, Germany, Jamaica 
and Seychelles score highest for their efforts to promote 
multilateralism, yet no country obtains a perfect score.
Some countries perform significantly better on SDG gov-
ernment efforts and commitment than would be expected 
from their 2015 baseline level of SDG achievement and 
GDP. We assume that rich countries with high educational 
levels and good health and infrastructure systems would 
have greater access to capital to invest in SDG transfor-
mations. Yet government efforts for the SDGs in 2023 
correlate only moderately to their 2015 SDG Index scores 
and per-capita GDP in 2015. Benin, Ghana, Indonesia, 
Nigeria, and Senegal are just some of the countries that are 
performing much better on the SDG government effort 
measure than would be predicted from their baseline SDG 
Index levels and 2015 per-capita GDP. In contrast, a few 
countries with very high per-capita GDPs (US$50,000 and 
above) and SDG Index scores (75 percent and above), such 
as Australia and the United States, demonstrate only a 
limited commitment to the SDGs, with apparently limited 
efforts made. See additional material available online. 
Note that this score focuses on federal or national govern-
ment efforts for the SDGs and may not be representative 
of initiatives and policies adopted at subnational levels – in 
regions, provinces, metropolitan areas, and cities. It has 
been SDSN’s privilege to also work with municipal and met-
ropolitan area associations in the United States and Brazil 
(ICS and SDSN, 2021; Lynch et al., 2019). 
At this midpoint of the 2030 Agenda, all countries, richer 
and poorer alike, should use the half-way momentum to 
critically review and revise their national strategies, taking 
the 2030 Agenda principles as a yardstick (transformative, 
integrated, inclusive, leaving no one behind). International 
financing flows should be aligned with countries’ SDG 
needs as well as their commitments.



===== GLOBAL_SGD2023_5_Lessons_Learned_and_Next_Steps =====

page 88:
77   
Lessons Learned and Next Steps
Ten Years of Work on SDG Data and Statistics by  
The SDSN, its Networks, and Partners
Part 4
Despite the fact that we are halfway through to 2030, 
much still needs to be done to strengthen the data and 
methodologies underlying the SDG indicator framework. 
The Resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly 
on 25 September 2015, Transforming Our World: The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, recognized from the 
start the importance of closely monitoring progress on 
the Goals. The section dedicated to SDG monitoring notes 
that “our governments have the primary responsibility for 
follow-up and review, at the national, regional and global 
levels, in relation to the progress made in implementing 
the Goals and targets over the coming 15 years” (United 
Nations, 2015). The resolution also calls for broader 
measures of progress to complement GDP. 
Thanks to the work of the United Nations Inter-Agency 
and Expert Group on SDG Indicators (IAEG-SDG), countries 
have adopted a common monitoring framework 
comprising 231 indicators, for which 219 have data as 
of October 2022.1 Gaps remain that limit our capacity 
to track SDG progress, and the IAEG-SDG continues to 
actively expand coverage where national data is missing, 
developing new methods, identifying new sources to 
disaggregate the indicators by key population groups 
(such as by gender), and creating indicators to measure 
progress in local areas. The Cape Town Global Action Plan 
for Sustainable Development Data, released in South Africa 
at the first United Nations World Data Forum in January 
2017 and adopted by the UN Statistical Commission, 
provides a strategic vision to strengthen data systems for 
Agenda 2030 (HLG-PCCB 2017).2
Since its inception in 2012, the SDSN has incorporated a 
strong focus on data and scienced-based pathways for 
sustainable development. In 2015, the SDSN Leadership 
1.	https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/files/meetings/iaeg-sdgs-meeting-13/8_
Data-availability-review.pdf
2.	 https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/hlg/Cape_Town_Global_Action_Plan_for_
Sustainable_Development_Data.pdf 
Council released its report Indicators and a Monitoring 
Framework for the Sustainable Development Goals: 
Launching a Data Revolution, directed to the UN Secretary-
General (SDSN 2015). Through its flagship initiatives, 
including the SDG Index and the Thematic Research 
Network on Data and Statistics (TReNDS), the SDSN works 
closely with many partners to support global, national, 
and local efforts to leverage the SDGs as a monitoring and 
accountability tool. The SDG Index is, by design, a measure 
that goes beyond GDP. Building on more than ten years of 
work, this chapter discusses lessons learned from SDSN’s 
flagship initiatives on data and statistics, identifying key 
priorities for improving the availability, quality, and use of 
data for sustainable development.
4.1 The SDG Index: a tool for guiding 
SDG action and strengthening 
accountability
Measuring sustainable development: why the 
SDG Index? 
Prior to the SDGs, there was already a vast body of 
literature on how to define and measure sustainable 
development (Brundtland 1987; Dasgupta and Mäler 
2000; Stiglitz, Sen, and Fitoussi 2009; Arrow et al. 
2013). The adoption of the SDGs and the Paris Climate 
Agreement in 2015 established a shared vocabulary for 
sustainable development, oriented towards Agenda 2030, 
with the Paris Agreement aiming for climate-neutrality 
by 2050. In comparison to previous international 
development agendas and goals, such as the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), the SDGs incorporated 
from the start a strong focus on targets, indicators, and 
monitoring – notably via the annual Voluntary National 
Review (VNR) process. The IAEG-SDG, which has operated 
under the United Nations Statistical Commission (UNSC)

page 89:
78   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
since 2015, was tasked to develop and implement the 
global indicator framework for the SDGs. The global 
indicator framework was adopted by the General 
Assembly on 6 July 2017 and is refined and reviewed 
annually. The framework currently includes 231 unique 
indicators (248 when including indicators that repeat 
under two or three different targets). 
Indicators provide data in specific areas, but they do 
not give us an aggregate measure of a country’s SDG 
performance (Schmidt-Traub et al. 2017). The SDGs include 
169 targets and 240 indicators, which is complex to digest 
from an operational point of view. Composite indices, 
however, despite their well-known shortcomings, allow 
us to synthesize complex information and may be more 
effective in stimulating public debate than a large number 
of individual scores that could result in cherry picking 
(OECD and JRC 2008). Widely used composite indices 
include the Human Development Index, the Environmental 
Performance Index (Wolf and Emerson et al. 2022), and 
the Better Life Index (OECD 2022a). The SDSN and partners 
have argued since 2017 that a combination of composite 
SDG metrics and dashboards is needed at the global, 
regional, and subnational levels to inform policies towards 
achieving complex integrated goals (Schmidt-Traub et al. 
2017; Lafortune and Schmidt-Traub 2019). These metrics 
and dashboards can be combined with other instruments 
(from forward-looking models to policy trackers towards 
deep decarbonization and sustainable food and land 
systems) to increase accountability and guide action on 
key SDG transformations. 
The SDG Index: method and participative process 
When it comes to integrated assessment models and tools 
like the SDG Index, the process often matters as much as 
the results. The soundness, relevance, and practical utility 
of such models and tools depend not only on scientific 
robustness, but also on their ability to generate partici-
pative exchanges, and to connect with policymakers and 
other stakeholders. In the context of SDG monitoring in 
the European Union, we proposed a framework and set 
of criteria in 2019, in collaboration with the Economic and 
Social Committee (EESC), to assess “the robustness and 
fitness of SDG monitoring tools” – so that they could serve 
as conversation-openers and contribute, along with other 
tools, to co-creating solutions with policymakers and 
stakeholders (Lafortune and Schmidt-Traub 2019). 
The SDG Index measures countries’ performance on 
the 17 SDGs. It both tracks distance to pre-defined 
performance thresholds (at one point in time) and 
evaluates whether countries are on-track or off-track 
(based on past growth rates extrapolated to 2030). 
Building on recommendations made in Launching a Data 
Revolution” back in 2015, the SDG Index includes around 
100 indicators (this year’s edition includes precisely 97 
global indicators), clustered by SDGs and normalized on 
a 0–100 scale using a classic min-max function. Scores 
are calculated using the arithmetic mean of normalized 
indicators and presented for each indicator, for individual 
goals, and for the SDGs as a whole. Performance bounds 
to denote SDG achievement for individual indicators are 
based on a clear decision tree, similar to the one used by 
the OECD in its assessment of distance to SDG targets 
(Lafortune et al. 2020; OECD 2019a). The Dashboards 
address the well-known problem of “compensation” in 
the construction of composite indices, in which good 
performance on some indicators compensates for poor 
performance on others, by focusing on the two lowest-
scoring indicators under each goal (Lafortune et al. 2018). 
The SDG Index methodology is fully transparent – and 
available online. It has been peer-reviewed by Nature 
Geoscience (Schmidt-Traub et al. 2017) and by Cambridge 
University Press. The global edition was statistically 
audited by the European Commission in 2019, who 
recognized that, “All things considered, the SDG Index is 
a noteworthy effort of synthetizing the 17 adopted SDGs 
into a single figure. Overall, the ranks of the SDG Index are 
fairly robust. The index is anchored on the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development adopted by all UN Member 
States and rigorously follows the same structure of 
17 goals” (Papadimitriou, Neves, and Becker 2019). 
It also builds on an inclusive and participative process. 
The SDG Index relies on inputs from the SDSN network 
of experts – the largest global network of scientists and 
experts mobilized for the SDGs – and other partner 
organizations. Each year, an open online consultation 
is conducted using draft SDG Index results before

page 90:
4.1 The SDG Index: a tool for guiding SDG action and strengthening accountability
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
79   
Box 4.1	
GIS for the SDGs: Assessing pedestrian accessibility in urban areas
In the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the associated New Urban Agenda, countries agreed to take action 
to provide cities with more accessible, well-connected infrastructure that would bring people into public spaces, and to 
enhance walkability through pedestrian accessibility.
Pedestrian accessibility is the extent to which the built environment facilitates walking access to destinations of interest, 
or the ability of urban residents to access services and opportunities. This metric is particularly useful for assessing spatial 
justice in cities, usually represented by disadvantaged communities being compelled to live in deteriorated urban areas 
that receive only a small share of public investments, resulting in low levels of accessibility.
Two sources of geographically explicit data were used to calculate this indicator. OpenStreetMap was used to collect 
data on pedestrian infrastructure and geographically allocated places of interest (POI): hospitals, schools, supermarkets, 
restaurants, schools, etc. Data on population density for each city was retrieved from the European Commission’s 
2020 Global Human Settlement Layer (GHSL), covering functional urban areas across the entire world. The GHSL provides 
data in the form of a 100 meter by 100 meter grid, in which each cell has an associated population-density value.
To assess accessibility to services for each urban area, we used network analysis to measure the distance separating each 
population cell grid from the closest amenities, divided by category, and considering the street network. This enabled us to 
quantify and map accessibility to urban infrastructure at the street intersection level. For each 100 m2 cell in the population 
grid data, “walking time” reflects the time that a person residing inside that cell area would take to walk to the closest 
amenity from a given category of services, using existing pedestrian infrastructure. 
The complete methodology, along with results and data visualizations, can be found on the SDG Transformation 
Centre website. Data processing used code written in Python: the code is publicly available on SDSN’s Github page. The 
methodology for this indicator was adapted and expanded from Nicoletti et al. (2022), “Disadvantaged communities have 
lower access to urban infrastructure.” 
Figure 4.1 
Map of Lagos, Nigeria, showing the scale at which calculations are performed (100 m2 grid).

page 91:
80   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
Box 4.2 GIS for the SDGs: Assessing accessibility to all-season roads in rural areas
SDG Indicator 9.1.1 considers the proportion of the rural population living within two kilometers of an all-season road: a 
road that is motorable throughout the year, although it may be temporarily unavailable during inclement weather.
To compute this indicator we used and expanded on the most recent official methodology put forward by the World 
Bank and the 2019 Rural Access Index (RAI) Supplemental Guidelines (Workman and McPherson, 2019). The Sustainable 
Development Report 2023 represents, to date, the only publicly available application of this method at a global scale.
Calculating final country scores relies entirely on geospatial datasets and methods. The key steps of this calculation are: 
mapping all motorable roads, drawing a two-kilometer buffer around them, and determining the percentage of the rural 
population that resides within the buffer. 
The particular challenge of this method lies in assessing whether or not a road provides all-season access. It is clear that 
simply discounting unpaved roads altogether is not realistic, as those often do provide all-year access to rural populations. 
Since no single, complete and timely road dataset is available to measure road access, several criteria were used to 
approximate a road’s passability: road surface (paved or unpaved), accumulated precipitation, road slope, and data on the 
country’s ability to keep roads motorable through infrastructure maintenance budgets (since the latter isn’t available for all 
countries, GDP per capita was used as a proxy).
Rural areas within the unpaved roads’ buffer zones are assessed on passability criteria, and their populations are scaled 
accordingly. For example, precipitation and slope criteria each represent a multiplying factor that ranges from 50% to 95%: 
if a buffer area is very steep, cliffed, and in a very wet climate, only 25% (50% x 50%) of the rural population accessing that 
road is considered to have access to it. GDP per capita is used as a correcting factor, as countries with the ability to invest in 
road infrastructure should be able to keep roads passable despite harsh terrain and adverse climate conditions.
The complete methodology, along with results and data visualizations, can be found on the SDG Transformation Centre 
website. Data processing used code written in Python and Javascript: the code is publicly available on SDSN’s Github page. 
The methodology for this indicator was adapted and expanded from Workman and McPherson (2019), Measuring Rural 
Access Using New Technologies: Supplemental Guidelines.
RURAL POPULATIONS 
OUTSIDE ROAD BUFFER
RURAL POPULATIONS 
INSIDE ROAD BUFFER
URBAN POPULATIONS
(NOT COUNTED)
Figure 4.2  
Diagram of a motorable road with the two-kilometer 
buffer applied, identifying rural populations living 
within and outside the buffer area
Figure 4.3  
Example of the method as applied in 
rural Democratic Republic of the Congo

page 92:
4.1 The SDG Index: a tool for guiding SDG action and strengthening accountability
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
81   
the final report is presented. Indicator selection and 
performance thresholds are informed by several rounds 
of consultations with SDSN experts, scientists, and 
the general public. Around a third of the indicators 
come from outside official statistics (for example, from 
scientific papers or NGOs). This helps fill data gaps in 
official statistics, for instance, in the areas of international 
spillovers, sustainability of diets, or biodiversity. We 
are increasingly using space-based technologies to 
strengthen data availability and timeliness (boxes 4.1 
and 4.2). While it takes several years to standardize 
international statistics, especially when methods need 
to be designed from scratch, our value-added is to fill 
existing gaps with third-party data where possible. 
The SDG Index serves as a conversation opener within 
the research and policy community. As emphasized in the 
World Development Report 2021, “data alone cannot solve 
development problems: people … are the central actors 
transforming data into useful information that can improve 
livelihoods and lives” (World Bank 2021). We partner with 
regional and local organizations to prepare indices and 
discuss results. As an illustration, the SDG Index for Europe 
is prepared with and discussed among the members of 
the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) – a 
consultative body of the European Commission that gives 
representatives of Europe’s socio-occupational interest 
groups (such as business associations, trade unions, and 
NGOs) and others a formal platform to express their points 
of view on EU issues (Lafortune et al. 2022). See Box 4.3 
for additional information. Other data initiatives at SDSN, 
including the FABLE models for sustainable land-use 
systems, also rely on inclusive participatory processes, 
such as “scenathons” conducted by and with local country 
teams (FABLE 2021; Mosnier et al. 2022).
Frequent comments received on the SDG Index 
throughout the years
The SDG Index, including its regional and local editions, 
has been generally well received by the research and 
policy communities, and it has become the backbone of 
numerous collaborations with international institutions 
Box 4.3 The long-standing partnership between the European Economic and Social 
Committee (EESC) and the SDSN to advance policies and data for the SDGs in the EU
Mr. Peter Schmidt 
European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) 
Agriculture, Rural Development and the Environment (NAT) Section, President
The European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) has been working together with 
SDSN for several years now, even before the launch of the first edition of the Europe 
Sustainable Development Report (ESDR) in 2019. The first ESDR report was based on 
earlier EESC work developed in cooperation with SDSN, on “Indicators better suited to evaluate the SDGs – the civil society 
contribution”. The ESDR was intended to identify SDG policy gaps within the European Union. It was developed in response 
to the EESC’s call for a monitoring report, to be produced in close collaboration with civil society organizations, that would 
complement Eurostat's annual SDG report. 
Since 2019, the EESC has provided the SDSN with civil society perspectives and facilitated contacts and dialogues with 
stakeholders and EU policymakers, thus contributing to both the preparation and the dissemination of the ESDR. Several 
joint meetings and events have been organised in this context. The ESDR has served as a conversation-opener with 
business, trade unions, and NGOs to advance sustainable development policies and make recommendations to EU 
leadership, thereby promoting evidence-based discussions at the EU level. The ESDR has also provided a solid foundation 
of data and information for EU policy-making – it has been cited in landmark documents, such as the first EECS EU-level 
Voluntary Review of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, and has inspired strong and meaningful policy proposals in 
the Committee’s issued opinions. We look forward to continuing our cooperation with SDSN in the future.

page 93:
82   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
and local organizations throughout the world. Comments 
submitted by governments, researchers, and practitioners 
either publicly or privately on the global SDG Index results 
and methodology tend to revolve around four main 
perceived issues: (1) The high SDG Index scores and ranks 
obtained by high-income countries, including European 
nations; (2) Data lags, gaps, and the treatment of national 
estimates; (3) Questions concerning the reliability of non-
official statistics and their legitimacy in the context of the 
SDGs; and (4) The absence of a material footprint indicator. 
On point (1), our results show that rich countries generally 
perform poorly and are not on track to achieving 
environmental goals (SDGs 12–15), and that poor 
countries need help to combat poverty. Rich European 
countries top the overall SDG Index. This reflects the 
nature of the SDGs, as European countries, particularly the 
Nordic economies, perform strongly on socioeconomic 
goals, relatively strongly on some local environmental 
priorities (for example, wastewater treatment, air pollution, 
or deforestation), and strongly on public institutions and 
the rule of law. Yet the SDG Dashboards rate rich countries, 
including Nordic countries, at “red” on several SDGs – 
particularly those related to responsible consumption and 
production, climate action, and biodiversity – meaning 
major challenges remain (Lafortune, Sachs, and Schmidt-
Traub 2020). Many rich countries also face a significant 
challenge in achieving SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), which 
includes unsustainable agriculture, unsustainable diets, 
and obesity. The stringent grading method used for the 
SDG Dashboards highlights negative environmental 
spillovers that affect climate, biodiversity, or water 
scarcity in other countries. Compared with other SDG 
monitoring reports, however, the SDG Index generates far 
more negative scores for rich countries on SDGs 12–15 
(Lafortune et al, 2020). The most recent European edition 
also highlights challenges related to the “leave-no-one-
behind” principle in Europe, as trends on several indicators 
related to inclusion are not moving in the right direction. 
Some commenters have recently pointed out that 
a country like Bhutan, which shows remarkable 
commitment to sustainable development and well-
being (characterized notably by its use of the Gross 
National Happiness Index), performs less well on the 
SDG Index than, for example, Finland or other Nordic 
countries. The rate of extreme poverty at US$2.15/day 
is about 6 times higher in Bhutan than in Finland, while 
poverty at US$3.65/day is 15 times higher; Bhutan’s 
maternal mortality rate (SDG target 3.1), at 60 in 100,000 
live births, is more than 7 times that of Finland (8 in 
100,000 live births), while its neonatal mortality rate is 
about 12 times that of Finland; and the incidence of 
tuberculosis in Bhutan is 47 times higher than in Finland. 
In Finland, 46 percent of parliamentarians are women, 
which is almost three times the rate in Bhutan, where 
only 17 percent of parliamentarians women. Overall, 
Bhutan performs lower than Finland on 14 of the 17 SDGs. 
The SDG Index acknowledges Bhutan’s recent progress 
on many socioeconomic indicators, and calls for global 
partnerships to promote sustainable development 
progress and financing globally.
On point (2), national governments often argue that the 
SDG Index results are biased, due to missing data and 
lags in data reporting. It is true that the results often 
represent the performance of the previous governments. 
There are significant time lags in international statistics, 
that can exceed two or even three years, as well as 
persisting data gaps in certain countries and country 
groups. This is partly due to the chronic underfinancing 
of statistics in LICs and LMICs. 
From a methodological standpoint, we do have 
techniques in our methodology to address missing-data 
bias and time lags. Countries are included in the SDG 
Index ranking only if they have data for at least 80 percent 
of the indicators (and one criterion for indicator inclusion 
is that data must be available for 80 percent of countries 
that have at least 1 million inhabitants). Some national 
authorities have in the past asked to incorporate their own 
national estimates in the SDG Index, to address time lags 
and gaps. However, national estimates cannot be included 
in the SDG Index unless they have been submitted, 
approved, and published by United Nations custodian 
agencies or other data providers. This is essential to 
ensure data quality and comparability. We do include 
some timelier, model-based estimates (for example, for 
poverty or health outcomes) and geospatial data. We 
also review our indicator selection annually and exclude 
particularly outdated data points and indicators that are 
not frequently updated.

page 94:
4.1 The SDG Index: a tool for guiding SDG action and strengthening accountability
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
83   
Box 4.4 SDG Index and Dashboards: global, regional, and subnational editions (2016–2023)
The UN Secretary-General António Guterres has rightly stated that “cities are where the climate battle will largely be won or 
lost.” Meeting the SDGs and the Paris Agreement goals requires ambitious policies, financing, and monitoring frameworks at 
the subnational and urban levels. Working closely with its global network of scientists and practitioners, regional and local SDG 
Centers, and other partners, the SDSN has established participatory processes to discuss SDG progress and priorities at regional 
and subnational levels. In comparison to global editions, these allow for more specificity in terms of defining regional pathways (for 
example, for Africa, Europe, or Latin America) and identifying local priorities and challenges to achieving the SDGs. Compared to the 
global edition, the use of regional and national databases for these reports tends to reduce constraints related to data availability 
and timeliness. In total, 30+ global, regional, and subnational editions of the SDG Index have been published, supporting stronger 
monitoring and policy frameworks for the SDGs.
Source: Authors’ analysis. Download the reports and databases at: www.sdgindex.org.
Regional editions
Subnational editions
Global editions

page 95:
84   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
Strategically, the SDSN is very much committed to sup-
porting global efforts to promote high-quality and timely 
data for the SDGs. Regional SDG Index editions (for Africa, 
Europe, and Latin America) and subnational editions (for 
provinces, states, regions, and municipalities) allow the 
indicator selection and policy discussion to be contextual-
ized, and this data tends to be timelier (Box 4.4). In response 
to feedback, since 2018 we have supplemented the SDG 
Index with other qualitative instruments to gauge govern-
ment efforts and commitment to the SDGs, in cooperation 
with SDSN’s global network (Sachs et al. 2022; Lafortune, 
Woelm, and Valentiny 2022). Finally, TReNDS and its Data 
For Now initiative, along with other flagship initiatives at 
SDSN, such as SDGs Today, aim to foster partnerships across 
a variety of data providers and users to unlock the potential 
of new technologies. 
On point (3), in an effort to accurately measure often 
overlooked issues, such as environmental challenges 
and international spillovers, the SDG Index includes 
high-quality official and unofficial metrics that fill gaps 
in the official SDG metrics. For example, the SDG Index 
has included carbon dioxide emissions since its incep-
tion in 2016, even though a measure of greenhouse 
gas emissions under SDG 13 (Climate Action) was only 
added to the official list in 2020 (Lafortune, Sachs, and 
Schmidt-Traub 2020). The SDG Index and Dashboards 
also include unofficial measures of unsustainable 
fishing practices and spillovers embodied in trade and 
aim to incorporate more geospatial data to improve 
timeliness and country coverage. In most cases, these 
indicators went through some form of peer-reviewed 
process and have been published in the literature 
which provides some guarantees about their quality 
and comparability. Others are widely recognized and 
used measures compiled by Transparency International, 
the World Justice Project, and Reporter Sans Frontières 
(among others). 
Box 4.5 Cooperation between SDSN and the Government of the Republic of Benin in 
the context of the issuance of the first African SDG Bond
H.E. Minister Romuald Wadagni 
Ministre d’Etat, Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances
In July 2021, to further the efforts it has made since 2016 to implement the SDGs, 
the Government of the Republic of Benin issued the first African SDG Bond, 
dedicated to financing projects that would have a significant positive impact on 
achieving the SDGs. Through this innovative financing instrument, Benin mobilized 
500 million euros, with an average maturity of 12.5 years. Within this framework, the 
Ministry of Economics and Finance of the Government of the Republic of Benin has 
called upon SDSN to assist in monitoring and evaluating Benin’s SDG progress and 
the efforts it has made towards the SDGs. 
The Benin Sustainable Development Report, which was launched at the 2022 HLPF, includes detailed analyses of Benin’s 
performance, progress, and gaps on the SDGs in comparison to neighboring ECOWAS countries, as well as looking at 
differences in SDG performance among Benin’s twelve departments under the “leave-no-one-behind” paradigm. The 
SDG Index and SDSN’s survey of government efforts are two of the tools used in this analysis. The 2023 edition of the 
Benin SDR will be released at the 2023 HLPF. 
Furthering this technical partnership, the SDSN Benin network has been created, hence mobilizing the locally based 
expertise to assist the government’s efforts towards sustainable development. The network is co-hosted by the University 
of Abomey-Calavi and the Research and Strategic Studies Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

page 96:
4.1 The SDG Index: a tool for guiding SDG action and strengthening accountability
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
85   
On point (4), some advocate for greater use of material 
footprint indicators and indicators of natural resource use 
(Hickel 2020). While we agree that material resource use 
and consumption and their impacts on the environment 
are important policy issues, we stand by the decision not 
to include indicators of material footprint or “domestic 
material consumption” in the SDG Index. In their current 
form, these indicators present well-known weaknesses. 
In particular, they combine by weight vastly different 
materials that each have different environmental impacts. 
Moreover, they do not correlate material flows by weight 
with environmental impacts, which vary tremendously 
across countries. For example, one kilogram of biomass 
used in a humid tropical country has a different footprint 
from the same biomass consumption in a semi-arid 
country. As a result, it is very difficult to compare material 
consumption across countries or to define targets. 
We recommend instead using the spillover indicators 
included in the SDG Index and Dashboards to capture 
unsustainable consumption (Lafortune, Sachs, and 
Schmidt-Traub 2020).
Observed reuse and impact of the SDG Index
The SDG Index is a flagship instrument to promote 
awareness of the SDGs. The SDG Index ranking receives 
widespread attention from politicians and the media, 
which further helps to raise awareness about the SDGs 
and creates a “race to the top.” Increasing awareness at 
all levels is critical to the success of the SDGs, and the 
global ranking draws attention to countries’ challenges. 
As noted in the 2005 World Bank staff report, the main 
advantage of rankings is that “as in sports, once you start 
keeping score everyone wants to win.” However, this 
also creates incentives to “game the system – or corrupt 
it,” (Washington Post Editorial Board 2021), which is why 
the SDG Index is prepared by an independent group 
of experts and researchers, and its methodology and 
datasets are fully transparent.
The SDG Index is also an accountability tool that 
helps monitor progress and identify areas that need 
improvement. It is used extensively by national 
governments, civil society, and academia. We estimate 
that around 40 percent of the VNRs presented at the 
United Nations by national governments in 2021 
mentioned the SDG Index. It was also listed by the 
European Parliament among ten composite indicators 
useful for policy making (EPRS 2021) and was referenced 
in the Parliament’s first SDG resolution in July 2022 
(European Parliament 2022). Although it was not 
developed to be a standalone tool to inform investment 
decisions, the SDG Index is also increasingly used by 
public and private financial institutions (BPCE 2018). 
Alongside other data sources, it is notably being used 
to monitor the implementation of the first African SDG 
bond, issued by the government of Benin in July 2021 
(SDSN 2022). See Box 4.5. 
The Index also helps shed light on certain key topics, 
including international spillovers, and can serve as 
a basis to identify drivers of success and failure on 
SDG outcomes. For instance, our strong emphasis 
on quantifying domestic performance, as well as 
negative spillovers generated abroad via trade, has 
likely contributed (alongside many other initiatives) to 
raising awareness in the EU about such spillover effects. 
Our work has been referenced in policy briefs and in 
the literature (Arunima Malik et al. 2021; A Malik et al. 
2021), a in parliament resolutions and government 
processes. In Europe, we partnered with Eurostat to 
improve the availability of data to track such spillovers, 
building on Multi-Regional Input-Output models, 
which is now a core chapter of Eurostat’s SDG report 
(Eurostat 2022). In addition, Box 4.6 describes how the 
SDG Index has been used to explore linkages between 
structural vulnerabilities and SDG outcomes in SIDS (in 
cooperation with UN Resident Coordinators in SIDS, 
as well as other partners), and to promote ambitious 
policies and financing frameworks for SDG progress 
(See Box 4.6). 
Finally, the SDG Index contributes to global efforts 
to improve data availability. Over the years, countries 
noted that certain key data points, notably on SDG10 
(Reduced Inequalities), were missing in our report. This 
has led some of those countries to work with the World 
Bank and other UN custodian agencies to compile 
these data. In our experience, missing data in the SDG 
Index is often perceived by countries as a sign of weak 
data capacity.

page 97:
86   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
4.2 Have the SDGs increased data 
cooperation and innovation?
The SDGs’ positive impact on fostering 
knowledge exchange and raising awareness
Although the SDGs have not yet completely transformed 
how policy is designed and implemented, as discussed 
in Part 3 and as is well-documented in the literature 
(Biermann et al. 2022; Kotzé et al. 2022; IGS 2023), they 
have helped to mobilize VNRs and peer learning, as well 
as spurring innovations in how progress is monitored, 
through the efforts of the IAEG-SDG. These indicators are 
now an important part of the evidence underpinning the 
more than 330 Voluntary National Reviews conducted to 
date to track countries’ performance towards the SDGs.
The contribution of the SDGs towards a universally 
accepted framework for monitoring progress is critical. 
Box 4.6 Partnership between SDSN and UN Resident Coordinators in SIDS
Simona Marinescu, Ph.D. 
Senior Advisor Small Island Developing States 
United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)
At the request of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), the United Nations 
Resident Coordinators serving in Small Island Developing States (SIDS) launched 
an unprecedented cross-country and region joint project to develop the first 
Multidimensional Vulnerability Index (MVI) and to capture inherent vulnerabilities 
hindering SDG progress in SIDS. The MVI is intended to define special 
development contexts such as SIDS and to complement measures of per-capita 
gross national income (GNI) to enable vulnerable countries to access development financing beyond income graduation. 
The MVI project was coordinated by the UN Resident Coordinator in Samoa. To ensure consistency in measuring countries’ 
development progress and to strengthen the robustness of the MVI, the UN Resident Coordinators in SIDS entered into a 
partnership with the SDSN team in Paris that expanded to include other analytical products for SIDS. The MVI was structured 
to capture sources of vulnerabilities that are non-self-inflicted and that generate human and economic losses and hinder 
development progress. The SDSN experts analyzed correlations between the value of a country’s MVI and its SDG progress 
across the 17 SDGs as well as goal-specific results. The findings confirmed that the MVI designed in collaboration with SDSN 
captures with high precision the vulnerabilities that impede sustainable development progress as measured through the 
SDG Index, with the highest correlations in the areas of poverty, health and education outcomes, food insecurity, climate-
change response, and biodiversity loss. 
The partnership with SDSN continued with the creation of the first SDG financing gap measure to link the MVI to the actual 
financing needs of SIDS, and to the finance that must be made available to these countries if they are to be able to achieve 
sustainable development by 2030. 
The triangle of the MVI, the SDG Index, and the SDG financing gap measure allows the United Nations Resident 
Coordinators in SIDS to identify policies and practices that have led to better SDG progress in countries with similar levels 
of multidimensional vulnerability. Furthermore, measuring SDG financing gaps of countries with similar MVI levels informs 
the analysis of a country’s development finance model and the quality of the external financing it receives in terms of the 
areas targeted, the programme tools utilized, and the content of work. 
The collaboration with SDSN is ongoing, with the first SIDS SDG Progress Report to be presented at the SDG Summit in 
September this year. Several iterations of a methodology being developed to measure losses and damages caused by 
climate change will also inform the upcoming Convention of Parties (COP28) in Dubai in December.

page 98:
4.2 Have the SDGs increased data cooperation and innovation?
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
87   
Prior to the SDGs, countries lacked a standardized method 
of comparing their development performance with 
that of their peers across a broad array of development 
objectives (for example, health, education, climate, ending 
poverty, reducing inequalities, etc.). Nor did countries have 
a common language to discuss and share experiences 
when tackling these development issues. Furthermore, 
the SDGs have positively impacted discourse and 
knowledge exchange beyond government officials. Many 
civil-society and private-sector actors have become SDG-
conversant, facilitating greater discourse within countries 
across government and non-government actors.
It is difficult to assess whether the adoption of the SDGs 
has in itself had a positive impact on the quantity and 
quality of international data available for sustainable 
development. According to the World Bank Statistical 
Performance Indicators (SPI), the world progressed on 
average by 2.1 points over the period 2016–2022. The 
annual rate of progress for LICs and LMICs was faster than 
the world average and the HICs average, which denotes 
some degree of convergence. Using population-weighted 
averages, LMICs are now performing better than UMICs 
on the Statistical Performance Indicators. Progress in 
LMICs since 2016 has been driven by significant improve-
ments in the SPI in some of the largest of these countries, 
including Bangladesh, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, 
Pakistan, and the Philippines. Part of this progress might 
be due to investments in data capacities and statistics 
made during the MDG period. SIDS continue to be, by 
far, the group of countries with the greatest number of 
missing data points on the SDG Index – SIDS are missing 
22 percent of SDG Index data on average, with some 
missing more than 50 percent.
HICs
UMICs
LMICs
LICs
World 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Figure 4.4  
Statistical Performance Indicators (SPI): Overall Score, 2016-2022
Note: From 0 (worst) to 100 (best). 
Source: Authors’ calculations, based on World Bank Statistical Performance Indicators (2023).

page 99:
88   
Part 4.Lessons Learned and Next Steps
The impact of COVID-19 (and other crises?) on 
data innovation
One hypothesis, previously documented by TReNDS 
in the SDR 2022, is that the COVID-19 pandemic and 
possibly other crises may be important drivers of 
data innovation and collaboration. The pandemic 
triggered new intra-governmental collaborations to 
provide decision-makers with evidence to manage 
the crisis. Furthermore, having timely and high-quality 
data became a foundation for resilient and effective 
governments throughout the pandemic, forcing 
governments to adopt new processes to overcome 
the numerous obstacles that COVID-19 presented. 
Across countries, pragmatic decisions have been 
made: to reprioritize staff and resources in order to 
modernize data capture methods and processes; 
to use non-traditional data sources to fill data gaps, 
including citizen science, social media, mobile, and 
satellite data; and to enhance data dissemination 
schemes to make it easier for policymakers and the 
general public to consume data. To achieve this 
feat, countries have embarked on a range of multi-
disciplinary and cross-sector partnerships. In many 
countries, National Statistics Offices (NSOs), were 
innovators during the pandemic. They engaged in 
partnership activities that were previously few and far 
between – working with stakeholders across sectors, 
including civil society, the private sector, academia, 
and NGOs – to accelerate data innovations for 
policymaking and SDG attainment.
Policymakers responding to ongoing cascading crises 
are likely to continue the experimental and reactive 
approach to policy development that they adopted 
during the pandemic, including placing a premium on 
timelier and higher-quality data. As such, these crises 
are likely to be the primary driver of future innovations 
in data, to design and test public policies and 
programs moving forward. Thus, multilateralism and 
investments in global capacity-building and funding 
for statistics remain critical for short- and long-term 
improvements in information and data for sustainable 
development.
4.3. Conclusions and next steps
 Building on the past ten years of work, including the SDG 
Index, TReNDS, and a number of SDSN’s initiatives, we 
draw five major lessons, which can serve as priorities to 
inform SDG policies and financing. 
1.	 Science-based instruments are needed at all 
levels to guide SDG action and strengthen 
accountability. There are no magic numbers, but 
rather a suite of tools – including indices, integrated 
assessment models, policy trackers, science panels, 
and geospatial tools – that when combined can 
strengthen government capacity to implement 
the SDGs and to target investments. SDSN’s new 
flagship initiative – the SDG Transformation Center 
– aims precisely to provide a suite of science-based 
instruments and serve as a platform for peer-to-peer 
learning and exchange among scientists, practitioners, 
and investors on the next generation of SDG policy 
tools, analytics, and long-term pathways. 
2.	 Additional investments are needed in capacity-
building for statistics. The SDG Index and TReNDS’ 
initiatives have, for some years now, highlighted 
the acute and persisting data gaps that prevail at 
the global level for the SDGs, as well as the need to 
accelerate partnerships and investments in statistical 
capacity (TReNDS 2019). Although the World Bank’s 
Statistical Performance Indicators show signs of 
improvements in statistical systems since 2016, poor 
and vulnerable countries (including SIDS) still lack 
the necessary resources to implement the vision of 
the 2017 Cape Town Global Action Plan for Sustainable 
Development Data (HLG-PCCB, 2017). According to 
PARIS21, funding for data and statistics fell by almost 
US$100 million between 2019 and 2021, representing 
the most significant drop in funding since the start 
of the SDG era (OECD 2022b). And as highlighted at 
the UN World Data Forum in April 2023 and reiterated 
in the 27 April Hangzhou declaration: statistical 
capacity in the poorer and most vulnerable countries 
requires “an urgent and sustained increase in the level 
and scale of investments in data and statistics from 
domestic and international actors, from the public, 
private, and philanthropic sectors” (HLG-PCCB 2023).

page 100:
4.3. Conclusions and next steps
4. Lessons Learned and Next Steps
89   
3.	 We need to invest in data and science literacy to 
strengthen the science-policy interface. According 
to major international studies, few 15-year-old 
students can tell the difference between a fact and 
an opinion (OECD 2019b). In an information-rich 
and post-truth environment, citizens and decision-
makers need knowledge and tools to transform data 
and science into evidence, actions, and long-term 
policies. Yet UNESCO estimates that there is a nearly 
US$100 billion finance gap for countries to reach 
their education targets (UNESCO 2023). The SDSN 
and its partners are increasingly collaborating with 
governments and parliaments – and also working 
closely with business associations, private financial 
institutions, trade unions, and academic organizations 
– to improve data literacy and support science-based 
policy discussions to advance the SDGs at the national 
and local levels. Strengthening the science-policy 
interface is key for implementing long-term pathways 
for sustainable development. 
4.	 Non-traditional statistics and science-based 
pathways help to address shortfalls in official 
statistics; they could be further leveraged to 
inform investment decisions. Developing official 
international statistics takes time. Especially when no 
suitable methodologies or data-collection methods 
exist. Halfway into the SDGs, for instance, we lack a 
good-quality international metric, available to most 
countries, to track “mechanisms in place to enhance 
policy coherence of sustainable development” – 
indicator 17.14.1. Nevertheless, building on the 
improvements in the field of industrial ecology, the 
SDSN and its partners have included an evaluation 
of negative international spillovers (one component 
of sustainable development policy coherence) in the 
SDG Index since 2017. Non-official sources of statistics, 
such as citizen science, social media, earth observation 
data, artificial intelligence (AI), model-based estimates, 
and other pathways produced by academics and 
researchers, support greater accountability and can 
provide a forward-looking evaluation of efforts to 
implement the SDGs, complementing official statistics. 
Additionally, initiatives like the Climate Action Tracker 
help provide science-based and forward-looking 
assessments of countries’ ambitions and actions taken 
to further key SDG transformations. These types of 
assessments, as well as science-based decarbonization 
targets and food and land pathways, can be further 
leveraged in the design and assessment of public and 
private investment programs for the SDGs, including 
sustainability-themed bonds. 
5.	 Space-based technologies help address data 
gaps and timeliness, including supporting the 
“leave no one behind” principle; they can be 
further leveraged via global partnerships. Time 
lags in international data reporting can exceed two 
to three years, including for key SDG indicators. With 
the elevated focus on and interest in data, COVID-
19 has set the stage for new user expectations, with 
many users – especially the general public – now 
expecting to obtain data in real time (Sachs et al. 2022). 
The global community has mobilized space-based 
technologies to help provide more timely and granular 
information on the state of the global commons, or 
on access to key services (among others). In Europe, 
for instance, Copernicus, the EU’s flagship Earth 
Observation and Monitoring program, was mobilized 
early on to improve SDG data availability, timeliness, 
and granularity. And the new SDGs-EYES program 
will establish “an integrated scientific, technological 
and user engagement framework, overcoming the 
knowledge and technical barriers that prevent the 
exploitation, combination and cross-feeding of data 
and tools” to support SDG action. At the global level, 
UN-GGIM and the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) 
aim to reduce the technical and legal barriers to using 
geospatial data and to strengthen multistakeholder 
partnerships. And TReNDS’ Data for Now initiative is 
working to support countries’ capacity to deliver robust 
and timely data to achieve the SDGs through user-
centric approach, multistakeholder partnerships, and 
use of alternative data sources, including space-based 
technologies. The “TReNDS Data for Now” initiative 
draws on a user-centric approach, multistakeholder 
partnerships, and the use of alternative data sources 
such as space-based technologies to build countries’ 
capacities to deliver accurate and timely data to 
achieve the SDGs.

