

===== GLOBAL_SGD2025_1_Executive_Summary =====

page 10:
viii   
   The SDGs and the UN Summit of the Future
Executive Summary
Since 2016, the Sustainable Development Report (SDR) has provided the most up-to-date data available to 
track and rank the performance of all UN member states on the SDGs. Eighty years after the creation of the 
UN system, the report also provides improved and updated measures to track countries’ efforts to support 
UN-based multilateralism. In total, more than 200,000 individual data points are used to produce 200+ country 
and regional SDG profiles. This year’s edition was authored by a group of independent experts at the SDG 
Transformation Center, an initiative of the SDSN. 
This year’s SDR emphasizes the following eight key messages: 
1.	 Global commitment to the SDGs is strong: 190 out of 193 countries have presented national action 
plans for advancing sustainable development. A decade after the adoption of Agenda 2030 and the 
SDGs, 190 of the 193 UN member states have participated in the Voluntary National Review (VNR) process, 
presenting their SDG implementation plans and sustainable development priorities to the international com-
munity. The European Union and State of Palestine have also presented VNRs. Most UN member states have 
presented two or more VNRs, and 39 countries volunteered to present one in 2025. Only three UN member 
states have not taken part in the VNR process: Haiti, Myanmar, and the United States. Additionally, a growing 
number of regional and local leaders have prepared Voluntary Local Reviews (VLRs) to report on SDG imple-
mentation at the subnational level. As of March 2025, 249 VLRs were listed on the dedicated UN website.
2.	 East and South Asia has outperformed all other regions in SDG progress since 2015. This year’s SDR 
introduces a steamlined SDG Index (SDGi), which uses 17 headline indicators to track overall SDG progress. 
On average, East and South Asia has shown the fastest progress on the SDGs since 2015, driven notably by 
rapid progress on the socioeconomic targets. 
3.	 Other countries that have progressed more rapidly than their peers include the following: Benin 
(Sub-Saharan Africa), Nepal (East and South Asia), Peru (Latin America and the Caribbean), the United Arab 
Emirates (Middle East and North Africa), Uzbekistan (Eastern Europe and Central Asia), Costa Rica (OECD), 
and Saudi Arabia (G20). 
4.	 European countries continue to top the SDG Index. Finland ranks first this year and 19 of the top 20 
countries are in Europe. Yet even these countries face significant challenges in achieving at least two goals, 
including those related to climate and biodiversity. In this year’s SDG Index, China (#49) and India (#99) 
have entered the top 50 and top 100 performers respectively.
5.	 On average globally, the SDGs are far off-track. At the global level, none of the 17 goals are currently 
on course to be achieved by 2030. Conflicts, structural vulnerabilities, and limited fiscal space impede SDG 
progress in many parts of the world. But while only 17 percent of the targets are on track to be achieved 
worldwide, most UN member states have made strong progress on targets related to access to basic ser-
vices and infrastructure, including mobile broadband use (SDG 9), access to electricity (SDG 7), internet use 
(SDG 9), under-5 mortality rate (SDG 3), and neonatal mortality (SDG 3).

page 11:
ix   Executive Summary
6.	 Barbados ranks first and the United States ranks last in UN-based multilateralism. Barbados stands 
out as the country most committed to UN-based multilateralism, while the United States ranks last in this 
year’s Index of countries’ support for UN-based multilateralism (UN-Mi). In early 2025, the United States 
announced its withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement and the World Health Organization (WHO) and 
formally declared its opposition to the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda. Among G20 countries, Brazil is the most 
committed to UN-based multilateralism, with Chile leading among OECD countries.
7.	 For many developing countries, a lack of fiscal space is the major obstacle to SDG progress. Roughly 
half the world’s population lives in countries that cannot invest adequately in sustainable development due 
to debt burdens and a lack of access to affordable, long-term capital. Global public goods are vastly under-
financed. UN member states gathering at the 4th International Conference on Financing for Development 
(FfD4) in Seville, Spain (June 30 – July 3, 2025) have an enormous responsibility, not only to their own citizens 
but to all of humanity. 
8.	 Sustainable development offers high returns: capital should flow to the emerging and developing 
countries on more favourable terms. The Global Financial Architecture (GFA) is broken. Money flows 
readily to rich countries and not to the emerging and developing economies (EMDEs) that offer higher 
growth potential and rates of return. At the top of the agenda at FfD4 is the need to reform the GFA so that 
capital flows in far larger sums to the EMDEs. Part 1 of this report (also published online by the SDSN in 
May 2025) offers practical recommendations to scale up and align international financing flows to support 
global public goods and achieve sustainable development.



===== GLOBAL_SGD2025_2_Financing_for_Development =====

page 13:
1   Financing for Development
Statement of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network1
Part 1 
The UN member states meeting in Seville have a 
responsibility not only to their own citizens but to all of 
humanity. Member states must act together in partner-
ship and good fath for the common good of humanity. 
No single member state of the United Nations can 
excuse itself from the responsibility to contribute fairly 
and adequately to the provision of global public goods 
and services. High-income member states have a 
special responsibility, both as a matter of distributive 
justice – that the rich not leave the poor behind – and 
as a matter of reparative justice – that those countries 
that contributed most to greenhouse gas emissions 
and other environmental harms in the past must do 
the most to curb their emissions in the future and to 
compensate the other countries for the damages their 
past actions have caused. No individual member state 
can shirk the demands of justice. 
There are four categories of public goods that must be 
addressed in Seville. First, UN member states must ade-
quately finance the UN system itself. The overall cost 
of UN operations is a paltry sum – just US$46 billion 
in 2023 (the year of most recent data) compared with 
US$2.4 trillion spent worldwide on the military that year. 
The United States paid US$13 billion towards UN opera-
tions in 2023, compared with US$916 billion on military 
outlays. The UN budget must be met in full, and indeed 
increased. Efficiencies in UN operations are to be wel-
comed, but cutting UN budgets at a time of pervasive 
conflicts, human displacements, climate disasters, 
epidemic diseases, and other crises is unacceptable. 
Second, UN member states must increase their official 
financing of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
in the lead-up to 2030, including providing debt relief as 
needed to create the fiscal space to achieve them. Since 
2016, SDG financing from official sources has received 
remarkably short shrift. The high-income countries 
have delayed critical capital increases at the World Bank 
and other multilateral development banks, even though 
the SDG financing gap is large and well documented, 
and delayed critical increases in International Monetary 
Fund quotas and Special Drawing Rights allocations. 
Third, UN member states must increase their financing 
of the global commons, including the biodiversity of 
the world’s tropical rainforests; the marine life of the 
oceans; and the protection of the atmosphere, fresh-
water, soils, coastlines, wetlands, and other ecosystems 
from transboundary pollution and global-scale degrada-
tion. The high-income countries bear the responsibility 
for filling the funds they have designated for these 
purposes, including the Adaptation Fund, the Loss and 
Damage Fund, the Green Climate Fund, and others.
Fourth, UN member states must agree on critical 
reforms of the international financial markets to ensure 
that world savings flow to countries with the highest 
investment returns and the highest growth prospects 
– which are the world’s poorer countries. This is not 
the case today. The international financial markets are 
led by faulty regulations and policies to favor countries 
that use the major international currencies, notably 
the US dollar and the euro, as well as countries already 
1.	 A previous version of this statement was adopted by the Fraternal 
Economy of Integral and Sustainable Development programme of 
the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences. The SDSN dedicates this 
statement to the memory of Pope Francis, a towering champion 
of the poor, the planet, and sustainable human development.
Overview
The upcoming Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD4), in Seville, Spain from 
June 30 – July 3, 2025, should send a message of hope that humanity’s global goals to end poverty and 
contain the climate emergency are within reach. Key reforms to the International Financial Architecture 
– the system of public and private finance that channels the world’s savings to the world’s investments – 
should be adopted at this conference to bring these vital objectives within reach. As the United Nations 
member states pledged in Agenda 2030, let us leave no one behind.

page 14:
2   favored by the US Federal Reserve and the European 
Central Bank. The rest of the world, especially poorer 
countries, is largely cut off from international capital 
by low credit ratings that punish poor countries as a 
matter of formula rather than economic logic, and by a 
maze of unilateral economic sanctions imposed by the 
key-currency countries. The IMF and the World Bank 
also fail to recognize the crucial positive role of long-
term debt financing for development, instead favoring 
a debt sustainability system that discourages or even 
bars the long-term financing of infrastructure and 
human capital in poorer countries. 
We call for a bold outcome that has four parts. First, 
the core outcome document from FfD4 should express 
the consensus of UN member states, if not neces-
sarily their unanimity. No single state or small group 
of states should block the collective will of the UN 
member states. The core outcome document should 
strongly reaffirm the global sustainability frameworks 
and agreements (Agenda 2030, the Sustainable 
Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement, and 
the Montreal-Kunming Biodiversity Framework) and 
the overarching principles of sustainable development, 
distributive and reparative justice, common but differ-
entiated responsibilities, and collective responsibility 
for the UN system, and commit to fixing the global 
financial architecture to ensure the financing needed 
for sustainable development. 
Second, there should be room for reservations by indi-
vidual states, to enable them to express their concerns 
without blocking the action of the consensus of member 
states. No single state or small number of states 
should impede actions supported by the majority of UN 
members, representing most of the world’s population. 
Third, there should be room for high-ambition initiatives 
by “coalitions of the willing”. FfD4 should encourage and 
welcome bold actions by individual regions or groups of 
nations that in turn inspire other nations and regions to 
raise their ambitions as well. 
Fourth, there should be a clear list of specific action 
items that can be reported to the world in clear and 
unmistakable terms, along with timelines and mea-
surements for accountability. The highest priorities 
include: (1) full funding of the UN system; (2) substan-
tial increases in official funding by the World Bank, 
multilateral development banks, and the International 
Monetary Fund, backed as necessary by capital 
increases at these institutions, and debt relief as 
needed to increase vital fiscal space; (3) proper funding 
of the institutions established to protect the global 
commons, including the Global Environmental Facility, 
the Adaptation Fund, and the Loss and Damage Fund, 
with clear assessments by country and new revenues 
raised via international taxes (e.g. on international 
shipping, aviation, and greenhouse emissions) and 
other agreed means; (4) clear steps to reform the 
regulation of private capital markets, including revamp-
ing the credit rating system and the IMF-World Bank 
Debt Sustainability Framework to increase capital flows 
to high-return investments in low-income countries, 
with a commitment to report back to the UN General 
Assembly on these measures in 2026. 
PART 1 – FINANCING FOR DEVELOPMENT

page 15:
Statement of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network on 
The Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD4)
3   Statement of the UN Sustainable 
Development Solutions Network on 
The Fourth International Conference 
on Financing for Development (FfD4)
Agenda 2030 and the Paris Climate Agreement further 
the common good of humanity, and humanity and 
the United Nations member states must actively work 
towards achieving them. Yet less than 20 percent of the 
SDG targets are on track to be achieved by 2030, and 
the climate crisis is rapidly worsening. No UN member 
state can exempt itself from this work, particularly at 
a time when unilateral actions by individual states can 
cause irreparable damage for the present and future 
generations of all humanity. 
The world is also beset by violent conflicts that claim 
innocent lives and threaten global survival. We must 
redouble our efforts towards peace and ensure for all 
people the material conditions of survival and dignity 
that are necessary for peace. We align ourselves with 
the Alliance for Peace adopted in Gernika, Spain under 
the auspices of the UN Alliance of Civilizations and in 
partnership with the UN Sustainable Development 
Solutions Network. 
Sustainable development is a high-
return activity
The job of finance is to bring the fruits of technologi-
cal advances to benefit all of humanity, including our 
impoverished brothers and sisters in conflict zones and 
places hard hit by the ravages of high-intensity trop-
ical cyclones, droughts, floods, heatwaves and forest 
fires that are occurring with increasing frequency as 
the result of human-induced climate change. We have 
powerful tools at our disposal – zero-carbon energy, 
open-source AI, precision agriculture, biodiversity con-
servation. We must undertake the needed investments 
to bring these solutions to bear at the global scale. 
There is more good news for finance: economic 
development is a high-return activity. This means that 
properly designed financial markets can channel the 
world’s savings not only to high-income countries that 
are already prosperous, but even more to the world’s 
poorer countries, which have the potential for rapid 
“catch-up” economic advancement. We note with 
satisfaction that today’s emerging market and devel-
oping economies (EMDEs) routinely achieve faster 
economic growth than do high-income countries, a 
process that economists call “economic convergence”. 
Indeed, the poorer a country is today, the greater its 
growth potential and the higher the return on invest-
ment. With properly functioning international financial 
markets associated with key institutional reforms within 
emerging economies to reduce investment risks and 
to channel investments towards economic, social, and 
environmental priorities, the stream of annual global 
savings – roughly US$30 trillion per year – will flow in a 
vast and rising current to meet the needs and fulfill the 
potential of the poorest countries.
In addition to investing in the planet’s environmental 
sustainability, the most reliably high return on the 
planet comes from investing in the health and educa-
tion of a young child in a low-income country in Africa, 
Asia, Oceania, or Latin America and the Caribbean. 
Education not only fosters dignity, fulfillment, and 
wellbeing, but also delivers remarkable and reliable 
economic benefits; leading economists to describe 
healthcare, nutrition, and education as investments in 
human capital. Such investments have a huge financial 
payoff with perhaps a 20 percent compound annual 
return when they are broad-based and of good quality. 
The most pressing practical challenge is to enable 
such investments even in impoverished areas where 
governments currently lack the revenue to provide 
health services, nutritional supplementation, and quality 
schooling for all children. We recall with alarm, sadness, 
and determination that some 250 million children are 
out of school because of the poverty of their societies, 
an estimated 733 million people struggle with chronic 
hunger, and roughly a third of humanity cannot afford 
a healthy diet. Sound international finance could and 
would channel long-term grants and loans to the 
poorest nations, allowing governments to ensure 
that all children receive the start in life they need and 
are enabled to achieve higher earnings in the future, 
so creating the very means for countries to repay 
1. Financing for Development

page 16:
4   international debts. For the millions of out-of-school, 
poor children living in middle-income countries, domes-
tic financing and accountable governance can ensure 
that even the poorest within these societies have access 
to health, nutrition, and quality education.
The potential of cutting-edge 
technologies to advance sustainable 
development 
This past year has brought us new fruits of human 
ingenuity. DeepSeek, an ingenious AI engine devised 
by young Chinese engineers, building on the ingenuity 
of AI pioneers, offers a powerful low-cost, open-source 
AI system that can benefit humanity. BYD, another 
innovative Chinese company, unveiled a system that 
charges electric vehicles in just five minutes, bringing 
the dream of convenient, low-cost and zero-emission 
mobility within reach. The 2024 Nobel prizes in chemis-
try and physics awarded to British and British-Canadian 
scientists celebrated breakthroughs in protein folding 
and machine learning, offering prospects for drug 
development and other stunning breakthroughs that 
could benefit human health and global prosperity. We 
are aware that advances in technology can be used for 
good or ill, but we emphasize their potential to enhance 
human wellbeing and advance the SDGs. We call on 
governments and policymakers to collaborate with 
scholars and civil society to establish legal, regulatory, 
and ethical frameworks to direct innovations towards 
the common good. We call on FfD4 to adopt measures 
to ensure that these new technologies are accessible to 
all parts of the planet, to rich and poor alike. 
Reforming the International Financial 
Architecture 
Scaling-up affordable and long-term financing
We emphasize, therefore, that the most important 
practical problem facing UN members at FfD4 is how 
to enable the vast US$30 trillion pool of world savings 
to flow in much larger amounts to where they are 
most in need: to low-income and lower-middle income 
countries and those most vulnerable to global envi-
ronmental shocks, and to the poorest people within all 
countries. For that, we must reform the international 
financial architecture. As a practical matter, the interna-
tional financial architecture should ensure that global 
savings flow to EMDEs with long maturities and low 
capital costs, are aligned to their investment needs, 
and have realistic timelines for long-term convergent 
growth in these countries. 
Financing for economic development is within reach, 
but the timeline of development must be understood 
and respected by the international financial system. A 
3-year-old child in Uganda today, if suitably enabled, 
empowered, and financed, will graduate university 
in 20 years. She will then work for another 20 years 
to reap the returns on her education, a period long 
enough to pay income taxes that repay the costs of her 
education. Uganda can therefore prudently borrow to 
finance the education of its children, to be repaid out 
of their bountiful future earnings, if the loans have long 
maturities (such as 40 years) and low interest rates 
that properly reflect the high returns of education and 
therefore the true “bankability” of the loans. 
We call on the UN member states meeting in Seville 
to redesign the international financial architecture in 
accord with the high potential and realistic timeline 
of economic convergence. For impoverished nations 
struggling under the weight of unsustainable debt 
and burdensome debt servicing, we call for debt relief 
consistent with the Jubilee Year. Debt relief should 
entail at the least a restructuring of the outstanding 
debts of heavily burdened countries, so that their debts 
fall due not in the immediate future but in 30–40 years: 
a realistic timeline that aligns with future economic 
growth. We also call on creditor governments to swap 
outstanding debts for investments in climate safety 
(debt-for-climate swaps), the protection of biodiversity 
(debt-for-nature swaps), and education (debt-for-edu-
cation swaps), in line with Pope Francis’s declaration of 
2025 as a Jubilee Year:
“If we really wish to prepare a path to peace in 
our world, let us commit ourselves to remedying 
the remote causes of injustice, settling unjust 
and unpayable debts, and feeding the hungry.” 
PART 1 – FINANCING FOR DEVELOPMENT

page 17:
Reforming the International Financial Architecture 
5   We note that in most cases the true debt challenge 
is not the absolute scale of the debt, but rather its 
terms. Until now, the international financial system has 
burdened developing country borrowers with subjec-
tive risk assessments of their international borrowing 
capacities that are not aligned with the underlying 
economic fundamentals of emerging economies. The 
essential fact is that poorer countries offer higher 
growth potential and higher returns on capital than 
rich countries. Capital should flow to these countries. 
Instead, they are condemned by short-term and short-
sighted analyses from credit rating agencies and the 
Bretton Woods institutions. As a result, they pay exor-
bitant yields and are pushed to accept short maturities 
on their market borrowing. 
One consequence is what economists call “self-fulfill-
ing panics”. Since the maturities are short, the debts 
must be refinanced every 5 to 10 years. The grave 
structural problem is that refinancing debts is rarely 
routine. Financial markets are inherently unstable 
and prone to self-fulfilling panics and crises within 
the domestic banking sector, in the international 
inter-bank market, and in the global bond refinance 
market. When a government borrows at 7 years in 
the Eurobond market, it may not be able to float new 
bonds when the existing one falls due. The obvious 
and crucial remedy is to match the time horizon of the 
loan with a realistic horizon for long-term economic 
growth (especially considering that the returns on 
investments in human capital typically require 20 to 40 
years to come to fruition). 
The EMDEs suffer mightily from inaccurate and unjust 
credit ratings that attribute extreme and largely 
self-fulfilling risks to investments in their countries. The 
simple fact is that the EMDEs are good credit prospects 
if the financing program is well designed (with long 
maturities and affordable yields); the national economy is 
well managed (fiscal rules and sound debt management 
systems); the investment program is well targeted to 
infrastructure, human capital, and business development; 
and LLR services are available. In such circumstances, 
the overriding truth is that today’s poorer countries have 
very high growth potential and high investment returns. 
Indeed, their potential economic growth and return on 
investment are far higher than in high-income countries. 
We therefore call on the IMF and the World Bank in 
their Debt Sustainability Framework (DSF), and to the 
credit rating agencies, to revamp their methodologies 
to take account of: the high potential growth of poorer 
countries if they can access the necessary financing 
for development; the maturity structure of loans 
(awarding higher credit ratings and debt-sustainability 
assessments to long-term loans); the quality of a 
country’s debt management systems; the presence of 
a domestic and/or international lender of last resort; 
and the uses of the external financing, recognizing the 
growth-creating benefits of high-return investments 
in human capital and physical infrastructure. Official 
financing should be accorded based on growth poten-
tial, good governance, and financing needs – not on the 
foreign policy considerations of one or another major 
power. Financing needs should be calibrated on the 
basis of integrated assessments that consider eco-
nomic, social, and environmental needs and objectives. 
One immediate change in the methodology used 
by credit rating agencies that is both urgent and will 
greatly enhance global growth and economic efficiency 
is to end the practice of “sovereign ceilings” on the 
credit ratings of private-sector entities in the EMDEs. 
According to this doctrine, no private-sector borrower 
can be accorded a credit rating higher than their 
country’s sovereign credit rating. This methodology 
makes no analytical sense and is a shorthand of the 
credit rating agencies. Many private-sector borrowers 
are plainly in a position to service their debts, whether 
or not their government is experiencing debt distress. 
A private-sector borrower may have sufficient collateral, 
liquidity, or a dedicated flow of revenue in the foreign 
currency to render it a low credit risk, independent 
of conditions facing its government. Historical data 
confirms the high credit performance of multilateral 
development banks (MDBs) and other development 
finance institutions in their private-sector operations.
Central banks and monetary unions 
In addition to preferring long-term loan maturities, 
there are additional solutions for short-term maturities. 
First, to the maximum extent possible, countries should 
borrow in their national currencies, so that their own 
1. Financing for Development

page 18:
6   central banks can provide Lender of Last Resort (LLR) 
assistance if the international financial market plunges 
into yet another financial panic. Even if the country’s 
borrowing is in a foreign currency, the central bank of 
that currency (i.e., the US Federal Reserve in the case 
of dollar-denominated borrowing) should provide cur-
rency swaps to the central bank of the indebted country 
to break a self-fulfilling panic. In effect, the Federal 
Reserve would fulfill the vital function of (International) 
Lender of Last Resort (ILLR). 
A third approach, first proposed in 1944 by the econ-
omist John Maynard Keynes, is for the IMF to be 
empowered to serve as the ILLR, utilizing a greatly 
expanded Special Drawing Rights (SDR) allocation as 
the IMF’s operating instrument. All these solutions 
may be bolstered in the intermediate term (in 10 to 20 
years) by the emergence of new monetary unions in the 
major regional economic groups, including the African 
Union, Mercosur, ASEAN, the Arab League, the Eurasian 
Economic Union, and others, recognizing that monetary 
unions require considerable support through the eco-
nomic, fiscal, and political integration of their members. 
Monetary unions (such as the euro) facilitate borrowing 
in a country’s own currency and would enable their 
central banks to serve as lenders of last resort. 
The governance of multilateral financial 
Institutions
The IMF and many other multilateral financial institu-
tions also need to reform their governance to give due 
weight to developing countries. To take one example, 
the IMF currently allocates only 17 percent of voting 
power to the 10 BRICS countries, even though these 
countries account for 27 percent of global output 
measured at market prices, 39 percent of global output 
measured at purchasing-power prices, and 46 percent 
of the world’s population. 
We also note with urgency the powerful case for greatly 
scaling up the flow of new lending by the multilateral 
development banks (MDBs), including the World Bank 
and regional development banks. MDB lending has an 
outstanding long-term track record, reflecting the finan-
cial expertise of the MDBs and the Preferred Creditor 
Treatment (PCT) accorded to MDB financing. The 
problem is that the scale of overall MDB financing today 
is only a fraction of what is needed to achieve our global 
goals. MDB financing can and should be bolstered in 
several ways: higher leverage on the MDBs’ current 
capital bases; new capital increases, either across the 
board of member states or from willing members only 
in the case of opposition from one or another member 
state; and co-financing of non-sovereign loans by 
private-sector institutional investors such as ILX, which 
creatively draws in pension fund capital in partnership 
with MDB financing, benefitting from the MDBs’ status 
as international financial institutions. 
We note as well the importance of new private credit 
managers in mobilizing private-sector financing for 
EMDEs, either through standalone private financing 
or blended financing in cooperation with MDBs. We 
also note that large-scale infrastructure investment 
initiatives – such as China’s Belt and Road Initiative or 
Europe’s Global Gateway – can accelerate connectivity 
across people and nations. Borrowing countries too 
can create new national and multilateral institutions, 
including national development banks and sovereign 
wealth funds, to enable sophisticated borrowing strat-
egies with improved bankability of projects and lower 
capital costs. 
Partnerships among MDBs but also with PDBs, for 
instance as part of the Financing in Common Initiative 
(FICs), can help accelerate the convergence towards 
shared standards and best practices, and to support 
banks’ commitments to shift their strategies towards 
achieving the SDGs.
Financing global public goods
In addition to massively scaling-up long-term loans at 
low interest rates to the EMDEs (both through direct 
funding from capital markets and through MDBs) 
there is a need to fund global public goods that are 
not suitable for loan or equity financing. These include 
providing social assistance to the poorest of the poor, 
funding UN institutions, and protecting the global 
commons (oceans, the atmosphere, tropical forests, 
space, endangered species, and critical biomes). 
PART 1 – FINANCING FOR DEVELOPMENT

page 19:
Reforming the International Financial Architecture 
7   The world has long called for official development 
assistance (ODA) for such purposes, yet ODA has never 
reached the global commitment of 0.7 percent of donor 
nations’ gross national income (GNI), an objective 
adopted by the UN General Assembly back in 1971. 
Today, however, ODA is collapsing, in a veritable free fall, 
undermined by political populism and shortsightedness 
in which donor governments fail to recognize their 
moral and legal responsibilities. ODA, after all, reflects 
a combination of distributive justice (ensuring that no 
one is left behind), reparative justice (repaying debts 
owed for past harms, whether from slavery, imperialism, 
the emissions of climate-changing greenhouse gases, 
or other harms to Earth’s physical systems), and inter-
generational justice (respecting the pressing needs of 
today’s young people and future generations). 
The high-income UN member states must not be allowed 
to falter in the pursuit of justice. Because traditional ODA 
is being cut or even phased out by some countries, eco-
nomic justice should be achieved not through voluntary 
ODA but through compulsory assessments from UN 
member states, including the implementation of inter-
national taxes on maritime shipping, global aviation and 
greenhouse gas emissions. Taxing the greenhouse gas 
emissions of high-income countries would combine the 
multiple dimensions of justice (distributive, reparative, 
and intergenerational) with practical resource mobili-
zation to help poorer and more vulnerable countries 
undertake effective climate action. Such global taxation 
should aim, in the first instance, to bring in 0.1 percent 
of global GDP, or roughly US$100 billion per year, rising 
to perhaps 1 percent of global GDP by 2040. All coun-
tries should cooperate to crack down on tax evasion and 
other financial crimes. To add another practical target to 
the global commitment to a sustainable planet, we urge 
sovereign wealth funds to allocate a meaningful portion 
of their vast resources directly to investments in environ-
mental sustainability. 
Addressing multidimensional poverty
In addressing poverty, the most important ethical principle 
is to co-create solutions: we should act with the poor, not 
merely for the poor. Or as the World Health Organization 
has powerfully stated, “Nothing for us without us”. 
Acting with the poor, small miracles can occur – moving 
from poverty to sustenance, from barren lands to 
flourishing food production. Smallholder farmers in 
rural areas constitute roughly three-quarters of those 
living in extreme income poverty and over 83 percent of 
multidimensionally poor people. They can best be sup-
ported in their livelihoods and wellbeing by programs 
that raise farm outputs and incomes: those champi-
oned by the Food and Agriculture Organization, the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development, the 
World Food Programme, and related agencies. 
Corporations can also play a decisive role by designing 
their core business strategies to empower the poorest 
of the poor – as workers, consumers, and citizens. 
Impact finance amounts to around a trillion dollars 
annually in managed assets, reflecting a vast desire 
for social and environmental impact among consum-
ers and investors that can be tapped for the common 
good. Greater transparency and disclosure by compa-
nies would aid consumers in making the ethical choices 
they desire to pursue. Similarly, accurate data on multi-
dimensional poverty and other development challenges 
will enable more people to respond more effectively to 
their ethical motivations. 
Effective governance 
Global financing is a vital instrument of empowerment, 
but it never stands alone. Economic convergence also 
depends on proper management by and within the 
borrowing countries. As economists say, convergence is 
“conditional” on effective governance in the borrowing 
countries. We therefore call for intensive skills training 
in lower-income countries to empower governments 
to plan effectively for their long-term development, 
manage fiscal policy and international indebtedness, 
fight corruption, and implement public investment 
plans and public services with diligence and excel-
lence. We call for the formation of a Borrowers Club 
of Nations, to work alongside the Creditors Clubs, to 
foster appropriate domestic institutions, fiscal rules, and 
regulatory practices to achieve long-term sustainable 
development. We also call for precise and quantified 
metrics – on the costs of capital, the maturity of loans, 
returns on equity, performance on the SDGs, and 
1. Financing for Development

page 20:
8   multi-dimensional poverty – so that commitments are 
tested rigorously against real actions. In addition, states 
must act in accordance with the 2030 Agenda (para-
graph 30) and refrain from promulgating and applying 
unilateral economic, financial, or trade measures that 
could undermine the abilities of other countries to 
invest in and cooperate for sustainable development. 
The Action Agenda at FfD4
There are four action priorities for FfD4. First, UN 
member states must adequately finance the UN system 
itself. The overall cost of UN operations is a paltry sum 
– just US$46 billion in 2023 (the year of most recent 
data) compared with US$2.4 trillion spent worldwide 
on the military that year. The United States paid US$13 
billion towards UN operations in 2023, compared with 
US$916 billion on military outlays. The UN budget must 
be met in full, and indeed increased. Efficiencies in UN 
operations are to be welcomed, but cutting UN budgets 
at a time of pervasive conflicts, human displacements, 
climate disasters, epidemic diseases, and other crises is 
unacceptable. 
Second, UN member states must increase their official 
financing of the Sustainable Development Goals in 
the lead-up to 2030, including providing debt relief as 
needed to create the fiscal space to achieve them. Since 
2016, SDG financing from official sources has received 
remarkably short shrift. The high-income countries have 
delayed critical capital increases at the World Bank and 
other multilateral development banks, even though the 
SDG financing gap is large and well documented, as 
well as delaying critical increases in IMF quotas and SDR 
allocations. And creditor nations have failed to estab-
lish fair and equitable standards of debt restructuring 
to prevent poor and vulnerable countries from being 
strangled by debt servicing, exacerbated by short and 
insufficient maturities of the debts. 
Third, UN member states must increase their financing 
of the global commons: the biodiversity of the world’s 
tropical rainforests; the marine life of the oceans; and 
the protection of the atmosphere, freshwater, soils, 
coastlines, wetlands, and other ecosystems from 
transboundary pollution and global-scale degradation. 
High-income countries bear the responsibility for filling 
the funds they have designated for these purposes, 
including the Adaptation Fund, the Loss and Damage 
Fund, the Green Climate Fund, and others.
Fourth, UN member states must agree on critical 
reforms of the international financial markets to ensure 
that the world’s savings flow to countries with the 
highest investment returns and the highest growth 
prospects – which are the poorer countries. This is not 
the case today. The international financial markets are 
led by faulty regulations and policies to favor countries 
that use the major international currencies, notably 
the US dollar and the euro, as well as countries already 
favored by the US Federal Reserve and the European 
Central Bank. The rest of the world, especially the 
poorer countries, is largely cut off from international 
capital by low credit ratings that punish poor countries 
as a matter of formula rather than economic logic, and 
by a maze of unilateral economic sanctions imposed by 
the key-currency countries. The IMF and the World Bank 
also fail to recognize the crucial positive role of long-
term debt financing for development, instead favoring 
a debt sustainability system that discourages or even 
bars the long-term financing of infrastructure and 
human capital in poorer countries. 
We call for a bold outcome that has four parts. First, 
the core outcome document from FfD4 should express 
the consensus of UN member states, if not neces-
sarily their unanimity. No single state or small group 
of states should block the collective will of the UN 
member states. The core outcome document should 
strongly reaffirm the global sustainability frameworks 
and agreements (Agenda 2030, the Sustainable 
Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement, and 
the Montreal-Kunming Biodiversity Framework) and 
the overarching principles of sustainable development, 
distributive and reparative justice, common but differ-
entiated responsibilities, and collective responsibility 
for the UN system, and commit to fixing the global 
financial architecture to ensure the financing needed 
for sustainable development. 
Second, there should be room for reservations by 
individual states, to enable them to express their con-
cerns without blocking the actions of the consensus 
PART 1 – FINANCING FOR DEVELOPMENT

page 21:
Message of Hope in Memory of Pope Francis
9   of member states. No single state or small number 
of states should impede actions supported by the 
majority of UN members, representing a majority of 
the world’s population. 
Third, there should be room for high-ambition initiatives 
by “coalitions of the willing”. FfD4 should encourage and 
welcome bold actions by individual regions or groups 
of nations that in turn inspire other nations and regions 
to raise their ambitions as well. Even as some countries, 
businesses, and even philanthropies step back from 
Sustainable Development, others all over the world 
are stepping up their efforts. Leaders of positive and 
dynamic change must be encouraged, supported, and 
championed in the outcome at Seville. 
Fourth, there should be a clear list of specific action 
items that can be reported to the world in clear and 
unmistakable terms, along with timelines and mea-
surements for accountability. The highest priorities 
include: (1) full funding of the UN system; (2) substan-
tial increases in official funding by the World Bank, 
multilateral development banks, and the International 
Monetary Fund, backed as necessary by capital 
increases at these institutions, and debt relief as 
needed to increase vital fiscal space; (3) proper funding 
of the institutions established to protect the global 
commons, including the Global Environmental Facility, 
the Adaptation Fund, and the Loss and Damage Fund, 
with clear assessments by country and new revenues 
raised via international taxes (e.g. on international 
shipping, aviation, and greenhouse emissions) and 
other agreed means; (4) clear steps to reform the 
regulation of private capital markets, including revamp-
ing the credit rating system and the IMF-World Bank 
Debt Sustainability Framework to increase capital flows 
to high-return investments in low-income countries, 
with a commitment to report back to the UN General 
Assembly on these measures in 2026. 
Message of Hope in Memory of Pope 
Francis
Our message is one of hope. Though we are beset by 
the polycrisis of conflict, environment, polarization, and 
deprivation, we are also empowered with breathtaking 
new technologies and global goals that inspire and 
impel humanity to build the future we want. We give our 
gratitude to the late Pope Francis for declaring 2025 to 
be a Jubilee Year and a year of great hope. The fourth 
Financing for Development conference can restore the 
world’s hope, by mobilizing nations committed to global 
peace, wellbeing, and sustainable development. Even if 
there is no unanimity, we urge a strong declaration with 
the backing of most of the UN member states so that 
we will move onward from Seville not only with words 
but with a decisive mobilization of financial resources 
for sustainable development. And as always, the 
2000+ universities in the UN Sustainable Development 
Solutions Network pledge their best efforts to support 
governments, business, and civil society to build the 
future we need and want.
1. Financing for Development



===== GLOBAL_SGD2025_3_The_SDG_Index_and_Dashboards =====

page 23:
11   The SDG Index builds on a peer-reviewed, statistically 
audited, and transparent methodology (Schmidt-
Traub et al. 2017; Lafortune et al. 2018; Papadimitriou, 
Neves, and Becker 2019). An online public consultation 
was held from April 4–11, 2025, with comments and 
suggestions collected from more than 50 organizations 
– including several National Statistical Offices (NSOs) 
– and 40 UN member states. The full database and 
methodological papers, as well as regional and local 
editions of the SDG Index and Dashboards, are avail-
able on the SDG Transformation Center website.
Status of SDG progress globally
Based on the rate of progress since they were adopted 
by the international community in 2015, none of the 
17 SDGs will be achieved by 2030 (Figure 2.1). At the 
global level, SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 11 (Sustainable 
Cities and Communities), SDG 14 (Life Below Water), 
SDG 15 (Life on Land) and SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and 
Strong Institutions) are particularly off track, facing 
major challenges (indicated in red on the dashboards) 
and showing no or very limited progress since 2015. 
The SDG Index and Dashboards
Part 2
The SDG Index and Dashboards provides an annual assessment of SDG progress covering all 193 UN 
member states. This year’s SDG Index incorporates 126 indicators, including 102 global indicators and 
24 additional indicators for the OECD countries’ dashboards. To align with the 2025 comprehensive 
review of SDG indicators, an indicator on “Minimum dietary diversity among children aged 6 months to 
23 months” has been incorporated into the dataset under SDG 2 (Zero Hunger). Other adjustments and 
modifications are described in the methods section. Although every UN member state has a country 
profile, only those with less than 20 percent missing data receive an SDG Index score and rank. This is to 
ensure the comparability of the results and to minimize missing data bias. This year, 167 countries are 
ranked in the SDG Index. This year’s edition also introduces a “headline” SDG Index (SDGi), which focuses 
on 17 SDG indicators to evaluate progress made by countries and regions on the SDGs, while minimizing 
statistical biases due to missing time series data. 
Figure 2.1  
World SDG Dashboard 2025
D
D
S
D
S
D
 
 
 
 
 
S
D
S
•
D
D
 
 
 
 
 
D
D
D
D
D
 
 
Source: Authors
p   Decreasing                     5  Stagnating                                  D  Moderately improving        L   On track or maintaining SDG achievement       
   Major challenges       
  Significant challenges        
  Challenges remain              
   SDG achieved        • Data not available

page 26:
14   PART 2 – THE SDG INDEX AND DASHBOARDS
Progress on SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals) is also 
very limited, due in part to global failures to address 
persisting gaps in access to financing for developing 
countries and to stark disparities in countries’ support 
for UN-based multilateralism (see Part 3). Detailed dash-
boards by world region, country grouping, and country 
are provided in the Annexes and country profiles. 
Less than 20 percent of the SDG targets are on 
track to be achieved globally (16.7 percent). The five 
targets most on track are: Mobile use (SDG 9), Access 
to electricity (SDG 7), Internet use (SDG 9), Under 5 
mortality rate (SDG 3) and Neonatal mortality (SDG 3). 
By contrast, most countries are either stagnating or 
backsliding on the following five targets: Obesity rate 
(SDG 2), Press Freedom Index (SDG 16), Sustainable 
Nitrogen Management Index (SDG 2), Red List Index 
(SDG 15) and Corruption Perception Index (SDG 16).
The spread In SDG performance across countries 
remains wide, with 2025 SDG Index scores ranging 
from over 80 in top-performing countries to below 50 
in countries where SDG implementation is especially 
challenging, often due to various forms of conflict. As 
in previous editions, European countries, particularly 
the Nordic countries, top the 2025 SDG Index. Finland 
ranks first, followed by Sweden and Denmark. Finland 
also holds the top spot on the World Happiness Report 
rankings (Helliwell et al. 2025). However, even these 
countries face substantial challenges in achieving 
several SDGs, notably SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 12 
(Responsible Consumption and Production), SDG 13 
(Climate Action) and SDG 15 (Life on Land), partly 
driven by unsustainable consumption patterns and 
negative international spillover effects. Countries at 
the lower end of the Index tend to be affected by 
conflict, security issues, political or socioeconomic 
instability, and limited fiscal space. In the 2025 
edition, Yemen, Somalia, Chad, the Central African 
Republic, and South Sudan rank at the bottom of the 
SDG Index.
SDG progress by region and country 
The “headline” SDG Index (SDGi) measures overall 
country progress using 17 key indicators, one per SDG. 
This limited number of indicators aims to minimize 
statistical biases related to missing time series data 
across countries. Selection of these 17 indicators was 
based on three main criteria: (1) relevance, with most 
being official SDG indicators or close proxies pro-
duced by UN custodian agencies); (2) statistical criteria, 
namely the ability of the individual SDGi indicators 
and of the headline aggregate to closely replicate 
the goal and SDG Index results through correlation 
analysis; and (3) data coverage across countries and 
over time. The cross-sectional correlation between 
the SDGi (17 indicators) and the SDG Index (102 
indicators) is very high (even collinear), while the SDGi 
growth rate between 2015–2024 is also correlated with 
the growth rate of the full SDG Index over the same 
period. However, the SDGi growth rate is only moder-
ately correlated with the growth rate of GDP over the 
same period. The 17 headline SDG indicators are listed 
below. Results were compiled for 143 countries, with 
those missing data for more than two SDGi indicators 
(12 percent) excluded for comparability purposes. 
Among those excluded, some face major challenges 
in implementing the SDGs or show major reversals 
in progress – including countries that are structurally 
vulnerable or affected by conflict. A detailed statistical 
annex is accessible online. 
Countries that started with higher SDG baselines in 
2015 have generally progressed more slowly than 
those with lower baselines, although results vary 
across regions and country groupings. The OECD 
countries and HICs began with the highest SDG 
baselines, primarily driven by better performance 
on socioeconomic goals, however these countries 
have generally shown limited progress on the SDGi 
since 2015. By contrast, countries in East and South 
Asia, the BRICS+ nations, and LMICs, which all started 
with lower baselines in 2015, have progressed more 
rapidly. Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and 
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries, 
despite initial baselines comparable to those of the 
BRICS and countries in East and South Asia, have pro-
gressed much more slowly on the SDGs. And although

page 30:
18   PART 2 – THE SDG INDEX AND DASHBOARDS
National and
Figure 2.5 
A decade of SDG Index and Dashboards: global, regional, national, and subnational editions
Source: Authors. Accessible online here: https://sdgtransformationcenter.org/sdgindex 
Box 1.  A decade of SDG Index and Dashboards: global, regional, national, and subnational editions
The global edition of the SDG Index and Dashboards 
highlights SDG trends and challenges across all countries. 
More detailed regional, national, and subnational SDG Indices 
and analyses have also been prepared by the SDSN and its 
local networks. These editions contextualize the indicator 
sets and policy discussions to mobilize stakeholders at 
various levels. For instance, the Europe edition (released 
annually since 2019) is prepared in cooperation with the 
European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) – including 
representatives from trade unions, business associations and 
NGOs – and its findings are presented and discussed with 
European leadership and institutions (Lafortune et al. 2024; 
Lafortune and Fuller 2025). The SDSN has also worked with 
numerous regional and local partners in the Arab region, 
in SIDS countries, and in countries including Benin, Bolivia, 
Brazil, Italy, Paraguay, Spain, the United States, and Uruguay 
to advance SDG monitoring and connect statistical analyses 
with long-term budgeting and policy frameworks. The 
resulting editions benefit from local expertise, often provided 
by SDSN networks hosted in universities and research 
centers, and from large-scale consultations and discussions 
both before and after assessments are performed. 
Increasingly, they also leverage GIS-technologies to provide 
more granular analyses. These have been referenced multiple 
times in Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs). In Europe, the 
European Parliamentary Research Service (EPRS) listed the 
SDG Index and Dashboards as one of the most useful for 
policymaking (EPRS 2021).

page 31:
19   2. SDG Index & Dashboards
SDG progress by region and country 
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and low-income coun-
tries (LICs) started off with the lowest 2015 baselines, 
other regions with higher baselines have progressed 
faster. Factors such as various forms of conflicts, 
structural vulnerabilities, weak institutional leadership, 
and limited fiscal space may explain disparities in SDG 
progress since 2015. 
At the same time, the regional and income-group 
aggregates hide significant disparities in SDG progress 
across countries. Globally, Benin, Togo, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Eswatini, and Uzbekistan have progressed the fastest 
on the SDGi since 2015. By contrast, Afghanistan, 
Algeria, the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela, and 
Yemen have stagnated or experienced reversals in 
progress (Figure 2.4.a). Compared with their regional 
peers, Benin, Nepal, Peru, the United Arab Emirates, 
and Uzbekistan have showed the fastest progres-
sion (Figure 2.4.b.). Costa Rica has progressed the 
fastest among OECD countries, whereas Saudi Arabia 
has progressed the fastest of the G20 countries 
(Figure 2.4.c). 
Box 2. The SDG Index and Geographic Information Systems 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) 
and Earth Observation (EO) technolo-
gies are crucial for SDG monitoring and 
spatial analysis (United Nations, 2021). 
A recent paper published by the Inter-
Agency and Expert Group on Sustainable 
Development Goal Indicators (IAEG-
SDGs), with contributions from the SDSN’s 
SDG Transformation Center, contains an 
updated shortlist of SDG indicators that 
directly or indirectly require geospatial 
data or tools — approximately 20 percent 
of all SDG indicators (United Nations 
2025). The need to disaggregate SDG 
indicator data by geographic location is 
also recognized by the United Nations, as 
this speaks to the “leave no one behind” 
principle of the 2030 Agenda, while data 
insights at a sub-national level help policy-
makers tailor their interventions to specific 
contexts. Preliminary research using 
high-resolution satellite imagery estimates 
that around 40 percent of the world’s 
population might be assigned to a diffe-
rent SDG Index quintile than that of their 
aggregated national SDG Index estimate, 
which suggests significant and persistent 
territorial disparities in SDG performance 
within countries (Iablonovski 2024).
At the SDSN, the SDG Transformation 
Center and SDGs Today programs leverage 
GIS technologies to provide granular and 
timely assessments of SDG challenges and 
progress. Over the past three editions, 
of the global SDR, as well as through 
bilateral collaborative initiatives, the SDG 
Transformation Center has introduced 
new, innovative geospatial indicators for 
the SDGs, building notably on a long-
term partnership with the Environmental 
Systems Research Institute (ESRI) and 
other partners. These geospatial indicators 
address critical data gaps and provide 
annual insights into the state of a set of 
SDG indicators at both national and local 
levels, utilizing open global datasets and 
cloud computing methods. 
•	 SDG indicator 9.1.1, the Rural Access 
Index (RAI) considers the proportion 
of the rural population living within 
two kilometers of an all-season road. 
The SDR presents, to date, the only 
publicly available application of the 
World Bank’s latest methodology at a 
global scale (Iablonovski et al. 2024; 
Workman and McPherson 2019). The 
particular challenge of this indicator’s 
calculation lies in assessing whether 
a road provides all-season access, 
approximated through data on precip-
itation, slope, and spatialized GDP per 
capita. The method used in the SDR 
was leveraged by the World Bank (the 
custodian agency for this indicator) for 
its Score Card platform (World Bank 
Group 2025). 
•	 SDG indicator 11.2.1, Urban Access 
to Public Transportation measures 
pedestrian accessibility, or the extent to 
which the built environment facilitates 
walking access to destinations of 
interest. Through network analysis, 
data on pedestrian infrastructure, 
geographically allocated places of 
interest, and population distribution 
are used to calculate the time a 
person would take to walk to the 
closest amenity. The expanded 
methodology covers additional key 
services (healthcare services, education 
facilities, food choices, and open public 
spaces) to fully assess urban pedestrian 
accessibility.
These and other indicators, such as SDG 
11.3.1 (Land Use Efficiency) and yearly CO2 
emissions from anthropogenic land-use 
change, by main driver (2014–2023), are 
published on the SDG Transformation 
Center website and available to download. 
Leveraging GIS and EO technologies to 
inform long-term investment and poli cy 
pathways for the SDGs at all levels will 
remain a key focus of research at the 
SDSN and SDG Transformation Center in 
the coming years. 
Source: Authors, based on https://
sdgtransformationcenter.org/geospatial

page 32:
20   PART 2 – THE SDG INDEX AND DASHBOARDS
High-income Countries
Low-income Countries
Lower-middle-income Countries
Upper-middle-income Countries
SDG Index 2025
International Spillover Index 2025
From 0 (worst) to 100 (best)
From 0 (worst) to 100 (best)
Income groups
SDG Index 2025
International Spillover Index 2025
Regions
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
BRICS+ members
Latin America and the Caribbean
East and South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
OECD members
Middle East and North Africa
Note: More details on the indicators used to compile the International Spillover Index 
are accessible in the methods’ summary. Averages are population-weighted.
Source: Authors
Figure 2.6 
SDG Index scores versus International Spillover Index scores, 2025
In most cases, rapid progress has primarily been driven 
by improvements on socioeconomic SDG indicators – 
especially the share of women parliamentarians (SDG 5) 
and rates of electrification (SDG 7), of adults with a bank 
account in a financial institution (SDG 8), and internet 
use (SDG 9) – and by progress on statistical perfor-
mance (SDG 17), and less by significant breakthroughs 
on environmental goals. 
To dive deeper into the drivers of SDG progress and to 
better understand persisting disparities within regions 
and countries, the SDSN has published multiple conti-
nental and subnational editions of the SDG Index that 
look at specific policy and financing priorities across 
regions and at multiple territorial levels (Box 1). This 
work increasingly builds on Geographic Information 
Systems (GIS) and Earth Observation (EO) technologies 
that support the development of timely and granular 
investment, policy, and monitoring frameworks for the 
SDGs at all levels (Box 2).
International spillovers and exposure 
to supply-chain disruptions
The SDGs are a global responsibility. As such, their 
domestic implementation should not compromise the 
ability of other countries to achieve them (Schmidt-
Traub, Hoff, and Bernlöhr 2019; Lafortune et al. 
2021; Gómez-Paredes, Malik, and Lafortune 2025). 
Via unsustainable consumption, the export of toxic 
waste, illicit trade, unfair tax competition, tax havens 
and, more generally, poor implementation of SDG 17 
(Partnerships for the Goals – including support for 
UN-based multilateralism), countries can, however, gen-
erate negative international spillovers. These spillovers 
are incorporated in the SDG Index and also compiled 
separately as part of the “International Spillover Index”. 
Positive spillovers (or “handprints”) are also consid-
ered, such as the provision of Official Development 
Assistance (ODA). This year’s edition includes 16 spill-
over indicators.

page 33:
21   2. SDG Index & Dashboards
Annex SDG Dashboard by Regions
Annex  
SDG Dashboard by Regions
Figure 2.7 
2025 SDG dashboards by region and income group (levels and trends)
AFFORDABLE 
AND CLEAN 
ENERGY
DECENT 
WORK AND 
ECONOMIC 
GROWTH
INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION
AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE
REDUCED
INEQUALITIES
SUSTAINABLE 
CITIES AND 
COMMUNITIES
RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION 
AND 
PRODUCTION
LIFE 
ON  LAND
PEACE, 
JUSTICE
AND STRONG
INSTITUTIONS
CLIMATE
ACTION
LIFE 
BELOW 
WATER
PARTNERSHIPS
FOR THE 
GOALS
NO 
POVERTY
ZERO
HUNGER
GOOD HEALTH
AND 
WELL-BEING
QUALITY
EDUCATION
GENDER
EQUALITY
CLEAN WATER 
AND 
SANITATION
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
Note: Excluding OECD specific indicators. Population-weighted averages.    
Source: Authors
BRICS • A • D • S • S • S • S • S • S • A • S • D • D • D • D • D • D • D
BRICS+ • A • D • S • D • S • S • S • S • A • S • D • D • D • D • D • D • D
East and South Asia • A • D • S • S • S • S • S • S • A • • • D • D • D • D • D • D • D
Eastern Europe and Central Asia • D • D • S • S • D • D • D • D • S • S • D • D • D • • • D • D • S
Latin America and the Caribbean • G • D • D • D • S • S • A • D • S • • • D • S • S • D • D • D • D
Middle East and North Africa • G • G • S • S • D • S • D • S • S • • • D • S • D • D • D • G • D
Oceania • D • D • D • D • D • D • D • • • D • • • G • • • D • D • D • • • D
OECD members • A • D • S • S • S • S • S • D • S • D • S • D • D • D • D • D • S
Small Island Developing States • D • D • D • D • S • S • D • • • D • S • D • • • D • D • S • D • D
Sub-Saharan Africa • D • D • D • D • D • D • D • D • D • • • D • A • A • S • D • G • D
Low-income countries • D • D • D • • • D • D • D • D • D • • • D • A • S • G • D • G • D
Lower-middle-income countries • S • D • D • D • D • D • S • S • S • • • D • D • D • S • D • D • D
Upper-middle-income countries • A • D • S • S • S • S • S • D • A • • • D • D • D • D • D • D • D
High-income countries • A • D • S • D • S • S • S • D • S • D • S • D • D • D • D • D • S
World average • D • D • S • D • S • D • S • D • S • • • D • D • D • D • D • D • D
L  On track
D   Moderately Increasing 5  Stagnating
p  Decreasing
• Data not available
   SDG achievement
   Challenges remain
   Significant challenges remain
   Major challenges remain
Overall, rich countries outperform other country group-
ings on overall SDG performance and life satisfaction, 
but they have also outsourced numerous negative 
environmental and socioeconomic impacts abroad 
(Figure 2.6). Additional details on our conceptual frame-
work, as well as policy and data work on international 
spillovers, have been presented in previous editions and 
are available on the SDG Transformation Center website 
(Malik et al. 2021; 2023; 2024; Ishii et al. 2024; Fuller 
and Bermont-Diaz 2024).
In addition to monitoring the potential impact policies 
may have on other countries, a growing body of research 
focuses on countries’ exposure to and vulnerability 
to disruptions in international supply chains. These 
disruptions can result from accelerated climate change 
and natural disasters, geopolitical events, unilateral 
policies, or other events (Koks et al. 2016; Koks and 
Thissen 2016; Koks et al. 2019; Fahr, Vismara, and Senner 
2024). This is becoming an important area of work at the 
SDSN to promote resilience and concerted action for a 
sustainable international trade system.



===== GLOBAL_SGD2025_4_Commitment_to_the_SDGs_and_UN-Based_Multilateralism =====

page 45:
33   Commitment to the SDGs  
and UN-Based Multilateralism 
Part 3
2025 marks the 10th anniversary of the SDG’s adoption and the 80th anniversary of the founding of the 
United Nations. In the aftermath of the Second World War, the international community adopted the UN 
Charter (1945) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) to provide the vision and guiding 
principles for maintaining peace, security, and effective global cooperation. In September 2024, at the 
UN Summit of the Future, the UN member states reaffirmed their commitment to the SDGs and effective 
multilateralism, adopting by consensus the Pact for the Future, Global Digital Compact and Declaration on 
Future Generations. 
level, outcome-based data can be missing or outdated, 
and significant changes in many cases may take years 
to materialize, despite the adoption of ambitious 
policies. Consequentially, outcome statistics may not 
reflect the current policy landscape or commitments to 
advancing the SDGs and effective multilateralism. This 
chapter therefore serves as a complement to the SDG 
Index by examining countries’ efforts and intentions to 
contribute to a collective movement toward sustainable 
development and international cooperation as empha-
sized under SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals). 
We begin by providing an overview of countries’ efforts 
and commitments towards the SDGs, notably through 
the preparation of Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs) 
and Voluntary Local Reviews (VLRs), where central/
federal governments or regional and local authorities 
present their SDG action plans and evaluate their 
progress. We then present an updated and expanded 
version of the Index of countries’ support for UN-based 
multilateralism (UN-Mi), including aggregate results 
as well as detailed results by indicator. The UN-Mi 
benefited from several rounds of comments collected 
since 2022 on pilot versions and in working papers 
(Sachs, Lafortune, and Drumm 2023). Its detailed 
methodology was peer-reviewed in 2024 (Lafortune 
and Sachs 2024). For clarity, most charts in this chapter 
focus on G20 and large countries (which collectively 
account for almost three-quarters of the world 
population). We also include the global median in each 
chart, as a measure of central tendency across the 193 
UN member states, as the median is less affected by 
outliers than the average. Detailed data for all countries 
is accessible at: https://sdgtransformationcenter.org/. 
The Pact calls for 56 actions related to SDG implemen-
tation, peace, and collective security, including the 
transformation of the multilateral system and reform of 
the international financial architecture (United Nations 
2024): 
•	 We will take bold, ambitious, accelerated, just and 
transformative actions to implement the 2030 
Agenda, achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
and leave no one behind. (Action 1)
•	 We will redouble our efforts to build and sustain 
peaceful, inclusive and just societies and address the 
root causes of conflicts. (Action 13)
•	 We will transform global governance and reinvigorate 
the multilateral system to tackle the challenges, and 
seize the opportunities, of today and tomorrow. 
(Action 38)
•	 We will accelerate reform of the international financial 
architecture to address the challenges of today and 
tomorrow. (Action 47)
This chapter aims to gauge countries’ support for 
the SDGs and UN-based multilateralism. Unlike the 
SDG Index (Part 2), which addresses SDG outcomes 
or implementation, this chapter focuses on intentions 
to promote global cooperation for sustainable devel-
opment – via, for instance, regular SDG reviews and 
action plans and the ratification of major UN treaties. 
Intentions matter for at least two reasons. First, they 
help build the trust needed among nation-states for 
effective multilateralism. Second, because at the global

page 46:
34   PART 3 – COMMITMENT TO THE SDGS AND UN-BASED MULTILATERALISM
3
41
95
44
10
Figure 3.1 
Participation in Voluntary National Review process (number of countries), 2016–2025
Note: n=193. Includes countries that are listed as 2025 VNR presenters 
in the letter signed by the President of ECOSOC on 7 October 2024. 
Source: Authors’ elaboration based on https://hlpf.un.org/vnrs 
0 VNR
1 VNR
2 VNRs
3 VNRs
4 VNRs
Government and societal support 
for the SDGs 
In 2015, through the 2030 Agenda resolution, all 193 UN 
member states committed to preparing regular reviews 
and action plans for sustainable development, pledging 
to engage in a “systematic follow-up and review of imple-
mentation of this Agenda over the next fifteen years” 
(United Nations 2015). The resolution specifies that 
these reviews should be ”voluntary and country-led”. 
Since 2016, more than 400 Voluntary National Reviews 
(VNRs) have been presented. As of July, 2025, 190 UN 
member states have taken part in the VNR process, 
with the majority (149) presenting two or more VNRs 
(Figure 3.1 and 3.2).1 Only three member states have 
never participated in the VNR process: Haiti, Myanmar, 
and the United States. The State of Palestine and the 
European Union are examples of non-UN member 
states that have also prepared and presented VNRs. 
1.	 In the case of the Islamic Republic of Iran, only the “Key Messages 
of Iran’s Voluntary National Review (VNR) on SDGs: 2017 HLPF” is 
available online. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/
documents/14994Iran.pdf 
Other metrics can provide a broader picture of societal 
support for sustainable development and global 
cooperation. At the subnational level, regional and 
local governments have prepared Voluntary Local 
Reviews (VLRs). While these hold no official status, the 
UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) 
tracks the publication of VLRs globally. New York City 
was among the first cities in the world to present a VLR, 
and as of April 2025, DESA has listed 249 VLRs, pub-
lished by regional and local authorities in 43 countries. 
Argentina, Brazil, Germany, Finland, Mexico, Spain, and 
the United States have each published 10 or more 
(Figure 3.3). 
Interestingly, despite current geopolitical tensions, 
survey data collected by UNDP reveals that an over-
whelming majority of people globally (86 percent) 
believe that countries “should work together on climate 
change even if they disagree on other issues, such as 
trade or security” (UNDP 2024).

page 50:
38   PART 3 – COMMITMENT TO THE SDGS AND UN-BASED MULTILATERALISM
The 2025 Index of countries’ support 
for UN-based multilateralism (UN-Mi)
The UN-Mi tracks countries’ support for UN-based multi-
lateralism. It does not capture efforts made by countries 
to promote international cooperation in regional and 
bilateral fora, or within the BRICS, G20, G7, OECD and 
other groups. The index measures a specific aspect of 
multilateralism distinct both conceptually and statistically 
from other concepts and constructs, including the Good 
Country Index or the Lowy Institute’s Global Diplomacy 
Index (which assesses the scale of diplomatic networks). 
We use a narrowly defined set of six headline indica-
tors to gauge countries’ commitment to UN-based 
multilateralism:
1.	 Ratification of major UN treaties
2.	 Percentage of votes aligned with the international 
majority at the UN General Assembly (UNGA)
3.	 Participation in selected UN organizations and agencies
4.	 Participation in conflicts and militarization
5.	 Use of unilateral coercive measures (UCMs)
6.	 Contribution to the UN budget and international 
solidarity
The median UN-Mi score is 66 (out of 100), but there 
are large disparities across UN member states. The 
2025 Index is topped again by Barbados, followed 
by five Small Island Developing States (SIDS), which 
tend to adhere to UN principles and treaties and not 
contribute much to militarizing the world. Non-SIDS 
countries such as Chile, Costa Rica, Honduras, Malaysia, 
Mongolia, Namibia, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, 
Senegal, Tunisia, and Uruguay also rank in the top 20 
globally, each scoring 80 or above. Conversely, the 
United States ranks as the country least committed to 
UN-based multilateralism, with a score of 5. Other coun-
tries that rank poorly on this year’s UN-Mi include Israel, 
Somalia, South Sudan, the Russian Federation, the 
Syrian Arab Republic, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and 
the Democratic Republic of Korea, all with scores below 
45. Among G20 countries, Brazil stands out as the most 
committed to UN-based multilateralism, followed by 
Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Germany, Indonesia, 
and Japan – all scoring above the global median of 66. 
By contrast, G20 countries the Russian Federation, 
Türkiye, and the United States all have UN-Mi scores 
below 50. 
Ratification of major UN Treaties
The first indicator is “Percentage of major UN treaties 
ratified”. This indicator covers 60 international 
conventions and agreements adopted by the United 
Nations from 1946–2024, or adopted before 1946 
and later added to the UN treaty system. It covers UN 
instruments ratified by more than 50 percent of the 
international community, excluding protocols, optional 
protocols, amendments, and conventions that were 
later terminated or applied only to a small number 
of countries. Treaties adopted outside of the United 
Nations or deposited by parties other than the UN 
Secretary General, such as the Geneva Conventions 
(adopted under the ICRC), were excluded. We recorded 
in our database (accessible online) whether member 
states have signed or ratified each one. Signature 
of a treaty is not legally binding, however ratification 
(or acceptance, accession, definitive signature, and 
succession) is. 
The global median is 85 percent (maximum 98 percent, 
minimum 40 percent). Among G20 and large countries, 
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, 
Italy, Japan, Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines, and the 
United Kingdom have all ratified more than 90 percent 
of major UN treaties (Figure 3.5). By contrast, 
Indonesia and Saudi Arabia have ratified less than 
75 percent and the United States less than 60 percent. 
In 2025, the United States withdrew from the Paris 
Climate Agreement.

page 51:
39   3. Commitment to the SDGs 
Percentage of votes aligned with the international majority at the UN General Assembly (UNGA)
Percentage of votes aligned with 
the international majority at the 
UN General Assembly (UNGA)
The second indicator is “Percentage of votes aligned with 
the majority vote at the UN General Assembly”. Chapter IV 
of the UN Charter describes the role and function of the 
UN General Assembly (UNGA), the main decision-making 
body of the United Nations. This indicator measures the 
percentage of times that each member state has voted 
with the simple international majority (not weighted by 
population), out of a total of 458 recorded votes over the 
period 2020–2024. Overall, since 1945, votes on more 
than 5,000 UNGA resolutions have been reported in the 
UN digital library (data were obtained via python web 
scraping). For each resolution, UN member states can 
vote yes or no, abstain, or be absent. In the vast majority 
of cases (98 percent of the time) the majority vote is “Yes”. 
The global median for alignment with the majority vote 
is 76 percent (ranging from a maximum of 96 percent 
to a minimum of 26 percent). Argentina, Bangladesh, 
Brazil, Egypt (Arab Republic), Ethiopia, Indonesia, 
Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, and South 
Africa aligned with the majority vote 80 percent of the 
time (Figure 3.6). Australia, Canada, Germany, France, 
Italy, Korea (Republic of), the Russian Federation, and 
the United Kingdom aligned with the international 
majority vote between 50 and 60 percent of the time. 
The United States, however, aligned with the interna-
tional majority vote around 30 percent of the time. Of 
all 193 UN member states, only Israel recorded a lower 
percentage of alignment (26 percent) over this period. 
The share of votes aligned with the international majority 
has varied significantly over time (Figure 3.7). In the early 
days of the UN, in the 1950s, the United States aligned 
with the majority vote of the international community 
Major UN treaties ratiﬁed (%)
Global median
Figure 3.5 
Major UN treaties ratified (percent), G20 and large countries, 1945–2024
Note: Treaties ratified by more than 50 percent of UN member states (N=60). As of January 1, 2025. Global median 
(85 percent) corresponds to the median percentage of major UN treaties ratified across all 193 UN member states. 
Source: Authors’ calculations based on UN treaty database.
3. Commitment to the SDGs

page 53:
41   Participation in selected UN organizations and agencies
80 percent of the time. However, this gradually fell to 
30 percent or less from the late 1980s through the 
2020s (Lafortune and Sachs 2025). Votes that put the 
United States in the minority are often related to Israel’s 
continued occupation of Palestinian territories captured 
in the 1967 war, or to collective security arrangements 
and international economic and financial reforms (includ-
ing the end of unilateral coercive measures). By contrast, 
Brazil, a major economy, consistently voted alongside 
the rest of the international majority three-quarters of 
the time or more throughout the entire period. 
2.	 UN Specialized Agencies: the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO); the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO); the International 
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD); the International Labour Organization (ILO); the International Monetary Fund (IMF); the International 
Maritime Organization (IMO); the International Telecommunication Union (ITU); the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
(UNESCO); the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO); the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO); the Universal 
Postal Union (UPU; the World Health Organization (WHO); the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO); the World Meteorological 
Organization (WMO); and the World Bank Group – including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the 
International Development Association (IDA), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). United Nations funds and programmes: UN 
Development Programme (UNDP), UN Environment Programme (UNEP), UN Population Fund (UNFPA), UN Human Settlements Programme 
(UN-HABITAT), UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Food Programme (WFP).
Participation in selected UN 
organizations and agencies
The third indicator refers to “Membership and par-
ticipation in selected United Nations organizations”. 
Chapter IX of the UN Charter describes the role of 
specialized agencies in fostering international economic 
and social cooperation. This indicator captures mem-
bership in 24 UN organizations as of March 2025: all 
15 specialized agencies,2 the 6 funds and programmes 
(UNDP, UNEP, UNFPA, UN-HABITAT, UNICEF and WFP), 
3. Commitment to the SDGs 
Figure 3.8 
Membership in selected group of 24 UN organizations, G20 and large countries, 2025
Note: Global median and maximum = 24. As of March 2025. 
Source: Authors, data compiled via desk research on individual organizations and agencies’ web portals.

page 54:
42   PART 3 – COMMITMENT TO THE SDGS AND UN-BASED MULTILATERALISM
the Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), 
the Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC), and the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
These 24 were selected to include all of the specialized 
agencies and represent a broad range of issues related 
to sustainable development (education, health, finance, 
trade, telecommunication, and industrial policies).
Most of the 193 UN member states participate in all 
24 selected organizations (with a global median of 24, 
a maximum of 24, and a minimum of 12). Since the last 
UN-Mi edition, Comoros has become the 165th WTO 
member state, while South Sudan and the Solomon 
Islands have joined UNIDO as its 172nd and 173rd 
member states, respectively. The majority of G20 and 
large countries are members of all 24 organizations 
(Figure 3.8), however Argentina announced in February 
2025 that it would leave the WHO; Australia is not 
a member of UNIDO, UNWTO or IFAD; Canada and 
the United Kingdom are not members of UNIDO or 
UNWTO; France left UNIDO in 2014; Ethiopia is not 
a member of WTO; the Russian Federation is not a 
member of UNWTO; and the United States is not a 
member of UNIDO or UNWTO and withdrew from the 
WHO in February 2025. 
Participation in conflicts and 
militarization
The fourth indicator concerns “Participation in conflicts 
and militarization”. The Preamble of the 1945 UN 
Charter states that all UN member states must “practice 
tolerance and live together in peace with one another as 
good neighbors” and “unite [their] strength to maintain 
international peace and security”. Several UN resolutions 
and reports highlight the link between disarmament 
and development. The final document of the tenth 
special session on disarmament, adopted by the UN 
General Assembly in 1978, underlined the following: 
“There is also a close relationship between 
disarmament and development. Progress in 
the former would help greatly in the realization 
of the latter. Therefore resources released as a 
result of the implementation of disarmament 
measures should be devoted to the economic 
and social development of all nations and 
contribute to the bridging of the economic gap 
between developed and developing countries.” 
(UN 1978, par 35)
Almost ten years later, in 1987, the International Con-
ference on the Relationship between Disarmament and 
Development led to the adoption of an action plan that 
included commitments to reduce military spending 
and redirect the resources saved toward development 
(United Nations 1987). More recently, in the context 
of the SDGs, the Under-Secretary-General and High 
Representative for Disarmament Affairs stated the 
following: 
“Through its 17 Sustainable Development Goals, 
the Agenda sets out a road map to end hunger, 
protect the planet, achieve gender equality, 
improve health and more. … It is estimated that 
the cost to achieve quality universal primary 
and early secondary education for all (Goal 4) 
would barely exceed 3 per cent of global annual 
military spending, while eliminating extreme 
poverty and hunger (Goals 1 and 2) would 
amount to only about 13 per cent of annual 
military spending. Reinvesting 5 per cent of 
global military spending would also exceed 
the initial annual costs of adapting to climate 
change in developing countries (Goal 13). So 
little could do so much.” (UNODA 2020)
In 2024, through the adoption of the Pact for the 
Future, UN member states raised their concerns about 
the potential impact that the global increase in military 
spending could have on sustainable development 
(Action 13). They requested the Secretary-General 
establish, by the end of the current (79th) session, 
an analysis of the impact specifically on the achieve-
ment of the SDGs. According to data compiled by the 
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 
(SIPRI), the world’s military expenditure reached 
2,718 billion USD in 2024, marking a 9.4 percent 
increase in real terms compared to 2023. This rep-
resents the largest year-on-year rise since at least the 
end of the Cold War (SIPRI 2025). Notably, military 
spending increased in all world regions.

page 55:
43   3. Commitment to the SDGs 
Use of unilateral coercive measures (UCMs)
Our “Participation in conflicts and militarization” 
indicator relies on data from the 2024 Global Peace 
Index (GPI), compiled by the Institute for Economics 
and Peace (IEP 2024). It is calculated as the average of 
a country’s score on the GPI’s “Militarisation” domain 
and on the two external dimensions of the “Ongoing 
Conflict” domain: “relations with neighboring countries” 
and external conflicts (number and resulting mortality). 
The Militarization pillar includes comparable data on mil-
itary expenditure as a percentage of GDP, the number 
of armed service officers per capita, and financial 
contributions to United Nations peacekeeping missions. 
Among G20 and large countries, Argentina, Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico and 
the Philippines perform best on this indicator (scoring 
below the global median). By contrast, the Russian 
Federation performs the worst globally (Figure 3.9).
Use of unilateral coercive measures 
(UCMs)
The fifth indicator relates to the “Use of unilateral coercive 
measures (UCMs)”. This indicator examines the adoption 
by UN member states of unilateral sanctions against other 
countries. Several UN resolutions stress that unilateral 
coercive measures and practices “are contrary to interna-
tional law, international humanitarian law, the UN Charter 
and the norms and principles governing peaceful rela-
tions among States” (OHCHR 2024). They also underline 
that. in the long term, such measures may lead to social 
problems and raise humanitarian concerns in the tar-
geted states. In 2014, the Human Rights Council created 
the mandate of the “Special Rapporteur on the negative 
impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment 
of human rights”. The 2030 Agenda stipulates that: 
Militarization
Global median
Figure 3.9. 
Global Peace Index: militarization and external conflicts, 2024
Note: from 1 (best, less militarized) to (5, worst, more militarized). Global median (1.86).  Source: Authors’ calculations based on IEP, 2024.
3. Commitment to the SDGs

page 56:
44   PART 3 – COMMITMENT TO THE SDGS AND UN-BASED MULTILATERALISM
Figure 3.10 
Use of unilateral coercive measures (UCMs), G20 and large countries (1950–2022/23)
Number of Unilateral Coercive Measures (UCMs)
Global median
Note: UCMs adopted between 1950 and 2021 that continued into 2022/23. Global median (2).
Source: Authors, based on Drexel Global Sanctions Database
“States are strongly urged to refrain from pro-
mulgating and applying any unilateral economic, 
financial or trade measures not in accordance 
with international law and the Charter of the 
United Nations that impede the full achievement 
of economic and social development, particularly 
in developing countries.” (United Nations 2025, 
para 30)
Since 1968, however, the UN Security Council has estab-
lished 31 sanctions regimes, including the famous 1977 
sanctions against apartheid South Africa, (unanimously 
imposed by UN Security Council Resolution 418). The 
Council has imposed sanctions regimes concerning the 
following states: Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), 
South Africa, the former Yugoslavia (2), Haiti (2), Angola, 
Liberia (3), Eritrea/Ethiopia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Côte 
d’Ivoire, Iran, Somalia/Eritrea, Iraq (2), the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Sudan, Lebanon, the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, Libya (2), Guinea-Bissau, 
Central African Republic, Yemen, South Sudan, and Mali. 
Sanctions regimes have also been established concern-
ing ISIL (Da’esh), Al-Qaida, and the Taliban. 
The data on UCMs presented in this report are 
sourced from the Global Sanctions Database (V4, 
2024), which provides information on sanctions 
imposed against countries, including the beginning 
and final year of sanction imposition (Felbermayr et 
al. 2020; Drexel University, HTWG Konstanz, and WIFO 
2024). Here we present sanctions adopted unilater-
ally from 1950 to 2021 that remained in place as of 
2022 or later. For our purposes, a sanction is classi-
fied as unilateral if it has not been authorized by the 
UN Security Council, even when imposed by multiple 
countries. Sanction regimes adopted unilaterally by

page 57:
45   3. Commitment to the SDGs 
Contribution to the UN budget and international solidarity
regional organizations, such as the EU or the League 
of Arab States, have been attributed to their individual 
member states. 
Only a small number of countries make frequent use of 
UCMs as a policy tool (global median number of uses 
of UCMs, 1950–2022/23 = 2). The United States is by 
far the most significant user of UCMs, particularly since 
the late 1980s and early 1990s, followed by European 
countries (Figure 3.10). 
Contribution to the UN budget and 
international solidarity
Finally, the sixth indicator relates to each country’s 
“Contribution to the UN budget and international soli-
darity”. Articles 17 and 19 of the UN Charter cover the 
organization’s financial and budgetary arrangements, 
with the UN Fifth Committee reporting on administra-
tive and budgetary matters. The capacity to pay remains 
the core principle for determining each member state’s 
contribution to the United Nations’ regular and peace-
keeping budgets. Based on this principle, the United 
Nations establishes a scale of assessments to apportion 
expenses for its regular budget and for peacekeeping 
operations. For the period 2025–2027, the United 
States and China are the largest contributors, each 
accounting for more than 20 percent of the regular UN 
budget and peacekeeping operations. 
The UN Fifth Committee keeps a record of countries 
that pay their dues on time, those with delays, and 
those in extreme arrears. Countries in significant 
arrears are subject to the provisions of Article 19: 
“a Member of the United Nations which is in arrears 
in the payment of its financial contributions to the 
Organization shall have no vote in the General 
Assembly if the amount of its arrears equals or exceeds 
the amount of the contributions due from it for the 
preceding two full years.” 
Since contributions to the UN budget are determined 
by the principle of capacity to pay, we do not rate coun-
tries on the total amount they pay. However, no matter 
the level of their contribution, every country can be 
expected to pay their dues on time, to ensure the effec-
tive functioning of the UN system. This indicator focuses 
on delays in payment of UN dues over the period, 
2020–2024 inclusive. A member state receives a perfect 
score (100) for each year they appear on the UNGA 
Committee on Contributions’ “honor roll“ list I (paid on 
time). Members appearing on list II, indicating that dues 
were paid after the 30-day due period, are given a score 
of 66 (small delay in payment). Those absent from the 
honor roll page are given a score of 33 (large delay in 
payment). A score of 0 is given to countries in arrears 
in the payment of their financial contributions, under 
the terms of Article 19, in January of the subsequent 
year, according to the list published on the UN General 
Assembly dedicated Article 19 page (extreme arrears 
in payment). Final scores correspond to each country’s 
average across 2020–2024. 
From 2020 to 2024, 21 countries systematically paid 
their dues to the UN on time, within the 30-day due 
period.3 Some countries, however, such as Comoros, 
São Tomé and Príncipe, and Venezuela have appeared 
on the Article 19 list several times. As largely docu-
mented, delays in payment by some of the largest 
contributors to the regular UN regular budget and 
peacekeeping operations in recent years represents 
a significant operational challenge for the effective 
functioning of the UN system (The Economist 2025) 
(Figure 3.11). 
For HICs with available data, total scores are adjusted 
based on their contribution to international solidar-
ity, as measured by the percentage of their GNI that 
is devoted to official development assistance (ODA), 
averaged over the 2020–2024 period. Four OECD/DAC 
members achieved the 0.7 percent target (Denmark, 
Luxembourg, Norway, and Sweden). On average, 
according to the OECD (2025), international aid 
declined in 2024 by 7.1 percent in real terms compared 
to the previous year (Figure 3.12).
3. Commitment to the SDGs 
3.	 These are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Finland, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Korea, Rep., Latvia, Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Singapore, 
Switzerland, and Ukraine.

page 59:
47   3. Commitment to the SDGs 
Outlook
Ensuring peace and security, advancing solutions 
to address the climate and biodiversity crises, and 
managing the pitfalls of runaway technologies – such 
as advanced biotechnologies that could create new 
pathogens, or AI systems capable of generating fake 
news or provocations to war – cannot be resolved by 
one country alone. These challenges require collabora-
tion among nation-states. In a context where humanity 
faces unprecedented threats of self-destruction 
(Bulletin of Atomic Scientists 2025), nation-states, which 
remain at the heart of the multilateral system, must be 
held accountable for upholding the values and prin-
ciples of the UN Charter and for advancing the SDGs 
– our shared global vision for sustainable development.
This chapter provides an overview of countries’ support 
for the SDGs and UN-based multilateralism. It underlines 
the overwhelming intention of most nation-states to 
support UN-based multilateralism, while also addressing 
how low and in some cases declining support among a 
small group of powerful and influential UN member states 
undermines the effective functioning of the UN system. All 
countries should capitalize on the momentum of upcom-
ing international conferences and summits – including in 
2025 the FfD4 in Spain, the 80th UN General Assembly, 
COP 30 in Brazil, and the UN World Social Summit, as well 
as in 2027 the next SDG Summit at Heads-of-State level 
– to recommit to strengthening UN-based multilateral-
ism and global partnerships, as emphasized by SDG 17 
(Partnerships for the Goals), and accelerating actions to 
achieve the SDGs by 2030 and mid-century.
References
Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. 2025. Closer than Ever: It is Now 
89 Seconds to Midnight. 2025 Doomsday Clock Statement. 
Science and Security Board, Bulletin of the Atomic 
Scientists, January 2025.
Drexel University, HTWG Konstanz, and WIFO. 2024. Global 
Sanctions Database (GSDB). Drexel University, Center 
for Global Policy Analysis, Philadelphia, US; Hochschule 
Konstanz University of Applied Sciences, Konstanz, Germany; 
and the Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO), 
Vienna. https://www.globalsanctionsdatabase.com/.
Felbermayr, Gabriel, Aleksandra Kirilakha, Constantinos 
Syropoulos, and Erdal Yalcin,Yoto V. Yotov. 2020. 
The global sanctions data base. Economic Review, 
Elsevier, October 2020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
euroecorev.2020.103561.
IEP. 2024. Global Peace Index 2024: Measuring Peace 
in a Complex World. Sydney, June 2024. Institute 
for Economics and Peace. Available from: http://
visionofhumanity.org/resources.
Lafortune, Guillaume, and Jeffrey D. Sachs. 2024. The index 
of countries’ support for UN-based multilateralism: 
construction, verification, and correlates. Asian Economic 
Papers 23 (3): 1‑28. https://doi.org/10.1162/asep_a_00902.
Lafortune, Guillaume, and Jeffrey D. Sachs. 2025. The US Is 
against the world on sustainable development. Nature 
640 (8058): 318–318. https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-
025-01041-y.
OECD. 2025. Preliminary official development assistance 
levels in 2024. OECD Publishing, Paris.
Sachs, J., G. Lafortune, and E Drumm. 2023. Index of UN-
Based Multilateralism: A Pilot Study by the UN Sustainable 
Development Solutions Network. SDSN.
SIPRI. 2025. SIPRI Military Expenditure Database. Stockholm 
International Peace Research Institute.
The Economist. 2025. The UN could run out of cash within 
months: America and China are pushing it to the brink 
of financial collapse. The Economist, May 1, 2025. https://
www.economist.com/international/2025/05/01/the-un-
could-run-out-of-cash-within-months
UNDP. 2024. Peoples’ Climate Vote 2024. UNDP, New York. 
https://www.undp.org/publications/peoples-climate-
vote-2024.
United Nations. 1978. Final Document of the Tenth Special 
Session of the General Assembly.Resolution adopted 
on the report of the ad hoc committee of the tenth 
special session, 23 May–30 June 1978. New York, https://
digitallibrary.un.org/record/218448?ln=en&v=pdf#files.
United Nations. 1987. Report of the International 
Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament 
and Development. United Nations, New York, 24 August – 
11 September 1987.
United Nations. 2015. Transforming Our World: The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. A/RES/70/1. New 
York: United Nations. https://sustainabledevelopment.
un.org/post2015/transformingourworld
United Nations. 2023. United Nations Security Council 
Sanctions Regimes. United Nations Security Council. 
Subsidiary Organs. Fact Sheets.
United Nations. 2024. The Pact for the Future. UN General 
Assembly Resolution.
UNODA. 2020. Rethinking Unconstrained Military Spending. 
United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs. Occasional 
Papers. N°35. April 2020.

