

===== OCDE_2024_1_Preface =====

page 4:
 3 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Preface 
The OECD and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) are 
delighted to introduce the results of a survey jointly conducted between 22 February and 9 June 2023 by 
the OECD, SDSN and the European Committee of the Regions on localising the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) in a changing landscape.  
A series of significant shocks in recent years, including the COVID-19 pandemic, higher inflation and 
energy prices, disruptions to global supply chains, and heightened geopolitical tensions, have raised 
hurdles on the path toward achieving the SDGs. Only 15% of them are considered to be on track for 
achievement by the 2030 deadline. Progress towards 48% of the SDG targets is currently insufficient, and 
37% are either stagnating or regressing, including on key targets such as those related to poverty, hunger 
and climate action. 
More specifically, rises in price levels and energy costs, alongside disruptions in global food markets, have 
adversely affected SDG targets related to poverty and inequality (SDGs 1 and 10), affordable energy (SDG 
7) and food security (SDG 2). Our survey of over 175 local and regional governments (LRGs) revealed a
decline in living standards due to inflationary pressures and the repercussions of recent shocks among
80% of respondents. Over 70% indicated an increase in electricity costs, putting the achievement of SDG
7 at risk, while around half noted the growing importance of combating hunger (SDG 2).
Cities and regions play a pivotal role in steering the SDGs back on track. The principle of subsidiarity 
emphasises the importance of taking decisions at the territorial level where they will have their maximum 
effect. Moreover, in 2021, LRGs accounted for 55% of public investment in OECD countries, and, because 
they are typically responsible for critical areas such as water, housing, transport, infrastructure, land use 
and climate change, at least 105 of the 169 targets that underlie the 17 SDGs are contingent upon the 
active engagement of LRGs.  
This paper paints a comprehensive picture of how recent shocks the COVID-19 pandemic, a changing 
landscape and rising living costs have affected progress on the localisation of the SDGs at the local level. 
It also suggests potential ways forward for local and regional governments to harness the SDGs for crafting 
sustainable urban and regional development policies, combating rising price levels, incentivising 
decarbonisation in both production and in consumption, promoting sustainable food systems and reducing 
food waste. Both our organisations are also leading work on financing the SDGs in cities and regions, 
including via the SDSN Global Commission for Urban SDG Finance that which will publish its final 
recommendations in the summer of 2024.

page 5:
4  
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Our two institutions take great pride in this collaborative endeavour and look forward to supporting local,  
regional and national governments further on their journey towards achieving the SDGs for a more 
sustainable and resilient future. 
Lamia Kamal-Chaoui, 
Director,  
OECD Centre for Entrepreneurship, SMEs, 
Regions and Cities 
Jeffrey Sachs, 
President,  
UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network



===== OCDE_2024_2_Executive_Summary =====

page 10:
 9 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Executive summary 
This policy paper presents the results of a survey jointly conducted by the OECD, the United Nations (UN) 
Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and the European Committee of the Regions (CoR) 
between February and June 2023 on the localisation of the SDGs in a changing landscape. Findings show 
that local and regional governments (LRGs) are actively engaged in the implementation of the SDGs, 
notably through awareness-raising campaigns, dedicated strategies for the SDGs and indicator systems 
to track progress. Many LRGs have also applied the SDGs as a guiding framework to rebound from the 
COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, the survey has revealed governance challenges such as a lack of 
resources for the implementation of the SDGs, shifting political priorities and insufficient vertical 
co-ordination. In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, 
the survey puts the spotlight on the declining standards of living in many cities and regions (SDGs 1 and 
10), increases in energy price levels and associated measures such as increasing demand for renewable 
and domestic energy sources (SDG 7) as well as the growing importance of food security (SDG 2).  
Political leadership is the main success factor in targeting the SDGs at the local 
level, while the lack of financial resources represents a challenge 
• 
Most cities and regions (62%) use awareness-raising campaigns as the most common action in 
their work to localise the SDGs, followed by a dedicated strategy or action plan for the SDGs (56%). 
• 
LRGs consider political leadership to be the most important factor in achieving the localisation of 
the SDGs in cities and regions (76%). 
• 
LRGs are facing several challenges when it comes to the implementation of the SDGs, notably a 
lack of financial resources (64%) and shifting political priorities, e.g. after local or regional elections 
(52%). 
The SDGs served as a key framework to guide cities and regions in recovering 
from the COVID-19 crisis 
• 
Around two thirds of LRGs are using the SDGs to guide policy making, which represents an 
increase of nearly 25 percentage points compared to before the pandemic (39%). 
• 
Almost half (45%) of LRGs consider the People dimension (SDGs 1 to 5) to be the most important 
post-COVID-19 challenge, which encompasses the SDGs on poverty, food, health, education and 
gender.

page 11:
10    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
The cost of living, energy and food security have taken a deep toll on the current 
landscape 
• 
Most LRGs (83%) reported that living standards have worsened because of the increase in the 
cost of living. In response to rising prices, two-thirds of responding LRGs have implemented 
measures to support vulnerable groups such as the provision of warm meals and financial support 
programmes for families in need. To save on heating and electricity costs, 62% of LRGs have 
reduced the average temperature in public buildings, while 46% have cut back on street lighting. 
• 
For 45% of LRGs, higher cost of living has reduced available funding for SDG implementation as 
subnational governments have prioritised expenditures on critical and essential services to address 
the short-term impacts of the crises. 
• 
SDG 7 Affordable and clean energy has gained importance for LRGs since the start of Russia’s 
war of aggression against Ukraine. Twenty-three percent of responding LRGs reported it had 
become their top priority, while an additional 57% stated that it had increased in relevance. 
• 
The growing pressures on the international energy market have led 36% of LRGs or their public 
energy provider to ramp up the share of renewable energy in their energy mix. Thirty-six percent 
also reported that they reduced their dependence on imported energy. 
• 
Shifting from fossil fuels to zero-carbon sources of energy (44%) and improving energy efficiency 
in the built environment (37%) are the 2 main priorities of LRGs to achieve SDG 7. 
• 
LRGs have implemented a variety of measures to address SDG 2 Zero hunger in light of 
increasingly frequent disruptions in the global food supply chain, notably setting up food banks and 
food distribution mechanisms for vulnerable populations (46%). 
• 
The most common action of LRGs to achieve sustainable food systems is the promotion of local 
food production (60%) while promoting a circular economy approach (60%) is the most common 
programme to reduce food waste. 
Ways forward to make the most of the SDGs in a changing landscape 
The survey has shed light on how LRGs are localising the SDGs and using the 2030 Agenda to navigate 
today’s multi-crisis world, including post-COVID-19 recovery. Yet, their journey to achieve the SDGs has 
been put at risk by the cost-of-living crisis, high energy prices and the ensuing funding gap for LRGs’ SDG 
efforts. Possible strategies for local, regional and national governments to advance the SDGs in the current 
landscape could be to: 
• 
Leverage the SDGs to design sustainable urban and regional development policies. LRGs 
could: 
o 
Align local or regional development strategies with the SDGs. The recovery phase should be 
leveraged as an opportunity to enhance resilience and preparedness for future shocks and 
crises, including by using the SDGs to periodically assess progress and make necessary 
adjustments as conditions evolve. 
o 
Boost political leadership for the SDGs by actively engaging in national and international city 
networks that enable peer-to-peer learning on the 2030 Agenda and help adopt the SDGs as 
a policy-making and monitoring framework. 
o 
Ensure adequate financial resources and capacity for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, 
for example by incorporating the SDGs into budgeting processes, using the SDGs to attract 
investment through innovative financial mechanisms such as municipal or regional 
sustainability bonds or local crowdfunding platforms for investment and considering the 
recommendations of the SDSN Global Commission for Urban SDG Finance.

page 12:
 11 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
• 
Combat rising price levels to support SDG 1 No poverty and SDG 10 Reduced inequalities. 
For example, LRGs could: 
o 
Improve housing affordability by developing targeted solutions for the most vulnerable, such 
as temporary rent subsidies or eviction preventions. 
o 
Expand social safety net programmes, including unemployment benefits and food assistance, 
to cushion those in need. 
o 
Enhance public transportation options and affordability (e.g. temporary reduction in ticket prices 
for those most in need) to counter the financial burden of increasing fuel prices and incentivise 
the usage of low-carbon mobility options to help meet climate objectives. 
• 
Incentivise decarbonisation both in production and consumption. To achieve SDG 7 and 
encourage the decarbonisation of energy production, energy efficiency improvements in buildings 
and the electrification of current fossil fuel use, LRGs could:  
o 
Negotiate long-term power purchase agreements with energy providers to finance the 
installation of greener sources of energy and harness group purchasing, such as Community 
Choice Aggregation, to procure a less carbon-intensive mix of energy.  
o 
Promote the generation of local energy for local consumption, e.g. by incentivising district 
heating or cooling systems to foster more sustainable and energy-efficient alternatives 
compared to individual building-based solutions. 
o 
Set decarbonisation goals, standards and regulations and lead by example to decarbonise 
government-owned and -operated infrastructure to achieve SDG 7 at the local level. For 
example, develop and implement building standards and green procurement policies for 
construction and refurbishment, which include a focus on whole life carbon and circularity, while 
financing energy efficiency retrofits for buildings and infrastructure through green bonds.  
• 
Promote sustainable food systems and reduce food waste. To advance sustainable food 
systems (SDG 2) and incentivise the reduction of food waste (SDG 12), LRGs could: 
o 
Adopt a holistic approach to food systems by developing urban food strategies that intertwine 
food policy with urban development strategies. 
o 
Develop a comprehensive circular economy strategy that incentivises circular food supply 
chains and encourages the purchase of goods and services from circular businesses. 
o 
Collaborate with organisations that rescue surplus food and distribute it to those in need, e.g. 
food banks and promote the use of technology-based solutions like food recovery applications 
that connect surplus food providers with recipients, minimising waste.



===== OCDE_2024_3_Introduction =====

page 13:
12  
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
The role of cities and regions in achieving the SDGs amid geopolitical 
uncertainty 
Cities and regions hold a pivotal role in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Established by 
the United Nations in 2015, the 17 SDGs aim to eradicate poverty, safeguard the environment and foster 
prosperity for all by 2030. Local and regional governments (LRGs) are crucial partners of national 
governments in ensuring the effective, location-specific implementation of the SDGs. According to OECD 
estimates, at least 105 out of the 169 targets that underlie the 17 SDGs depend on the active engagement 
of local and regional governments (OECD, 2020[1]). In 2021, subnational levels of government in OECD 
countries accounted for 55% of public investment and 37% of total public spending (OECD, 2023[2]). Their 
activities span numerous policy areas, including but not limited to housing, transportation, infrastructure, 
land use, waste management, access to clean drinking water and sanitation, energy efficiency and 
addressing climate change. However, currently, 48% of SDG targets are moderately or severely off track 
and a further 37% are stagnating or have even regressed (UN, 2023[3]). These include crucial targets 
related to poverty reduction, hunger eradication and addressing the pressing issue of climate change. The 
European Union and its member states are also facing notable gaps towards the achievement of the SDGs, 
including SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities (Eurostat, 2023[4]; Lafortune et al., 2024[5]). Further 
complicating efforts to reach these targets, cities and regions are confronted with specific challenges when 
it comes to financing sustainable development (Birch, Rodas and Drumm, 2023[6]). They are caught 
between front-line responsibility for the delivery of many services and infrastructure investment and back-
of-the-line access to public financing: national governments, by and large, continue to collect most revenue 
to fund public investments and social services (Sachs et al., 2023[7]).  
The current uncertain geopolitical context adds obstacles to achieving the SDGs. The ongoing recovery 
from the COVID-19 pandemic and the repercussions of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, along 
with the associated rise in price levels and energy costs and impacts on global food markets, have 
far-reaching implications for numerous policy domains and the overarching pursuit of the SDGs. This is, in 
particular, the case for those SDG targets related to poverty and inequality (SDGs 1 and 10), clean and 
affordable energy (SDG 7) and food security (SDG 2). Cities and regions face the highest levels of inflation 
across OECD countries in over 3 decades, with an average of 9.5% in 2022 and an estimated 6.9% in 
2023 (OECD, 2023[8]; 2024[9]). Recent economic indicators indicate a slight slowdown in gross domestic 
product (GDP) growth, with attacks on ships in the Red Sea raising shipping costs and lengthening delivery 
times, disrupting production schedules and raising price pressures (OECD, 2024[10]). Industrial production 
reflects such uncertainty, with its global growth having slowed down from 6.2% in 2021 to 2.3% in 2022 as 
a result of inflation, energy price shocks, disruptions in supply chains for raw materials and intermediate 
goods, and a broader global economic deceleration (OECD, 2024[11]; UN, 2023[3]). The agricultural sector 
is under strain from rising energy and fertiliser prices, compounded by more frequent and severe climate-
related disasters, posing threats to food security. Inflation in food prices is eroding income gains, raising 
additional barriers to accessing food around the globe. In 2022, 9.2% of the global population experienced 
chronic hunger, up from 7.9% in 2019, with projections indicating that more than 600 million people could 
be facing hunger by 2030, the endpoint of the SDGs (UN, 2023[3]). Being closest to their citizens, cities 
1 Introduction

page 14:
 13 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
and regions will be key to navigating these challenges and steering the 2030 Agenda back on course 
through targeted measures to tackle the cost-of-living crisis, facilitate access to clean and affordable 
energy, and improve food security.  
The OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a 
changing landscape 
The OECD, the Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and the European Committee of the 
Regions (CoR) launched a joint survey in 2023 to take stock of the progress made by cities and regions in 
implementing the SDGs in a changing international landscape marked by shocks and crises. The survey 
analyses local and regional governments’ efforts to achieve the SDGs and assesses how cities and regions 
are using the SDGs in their post-COVID recovery. It also examines how the SDGs and three key policy 
areas (cost of living, energy, food) have been affected by crises such as COVID-19 and the fallout of 
Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, including high inflation, disruptions in global food value chains 
and rising energy prices. The survey questionnaire was divided into three sections: i) implementation of 
the SDGs by cities and regions, ii) SDGs for COVID-19 recovery in cities and regions; and iii) the SDGs 
and key policy areas affected by current crises (Box 1.1). 
Box 1.1. The OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a 
changing landscape, 2023 
Conducted from 22 February 2023 to 9 June 2023, the survey gathered answers from 243 respondents, 
72% of which came from European Union (EU) countries, 6% from non-EU OECD member countries 
and 22% from non-OECD member countries. The most represented countries were Poland (13%), Italy 
(12%) and Germany (9%), followed by Spain (6%) and Portugal (5%). 
The aim of this survey was to provide a snapshot of the views of different local and regional stakeholders. 
Almost half of responses were received from municipalities (48%): 23% had fewer than 
50 000 inhabitants, 12% between 50 000 and 200 000 inhabitants, 8% between 200 000 and 500 000, 
and 5% from large cities (more than 500 000 inhabitants). Respondents also came from regions (18%) 
and intermediary entities such as counties or provinces (7%) in countries with 3 levels of subnational 
government or other local and regional bodies. The remaining 27% of respondents represent other 
categories of territorial stakeholders, such as academia and research institutions, non-governmental 
organisations or public bodies. The analysis treated governments and territorial stakeholders as 
two separate categories to distinguish between formal governing bodies and other entities. 
Survey structure (see detailed survey in Annex A)  
1. Cities’ and regions’ implementation of the SDGs. 
a. Policies and actions adopted for the implementation of the SDGs. 
b. Types of data used to track progress on the SDGs. 
c. Success factors for SDG implementation. 
d. Governance challenges in implementing the 2030 Agenda. 
2. The relevance of the SDGs in the COVID-19 recovery phase for cities and regions. 
a. The role of the SDGs as a framework for the COVID-19 recovery phase. 
b. Post-COVID-19 challenges in cities and regions. 
3. SDGs and key policy areas affected by the current crisis.

page 15:
14  
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Cost of living 
a.
Impact of the cost-of-living crisis on the standard of living in cities and regions.
b.
Policy areas most affected by the increased cost of living.
c.
Measures to respond to increasing price levels.
d.
Impact of the cost-of-living crisis on the work on the SDGs.
Energy 
a.
Impact of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine on SDG 7 Clean and affordable
energy.
b.
Impact of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine on the cost of electricity.
c.
Responses to growing pressures on the international energy market.
d.
Consumption-based emission targets.
e.
Policies and strategies to best transition to cleaner energy production.
Food 
a.
Prioritisation of SDG 2 Zero hunger.
b.
Actions to address SDG 2 in cities and regions.
c.
Measures put in place to achieve sustainable food systems.
d.
Programmes implemented to reduce food waste.
References 
Birch, E., M. Rodas and E. Drumm (2023), “Bridging the SDG funding gap in cities”, SDG Action, 
https://sdg-action.org/bridging-the-sdg-funding-gap-in-cities/ (accessed on 19 January 2024). 
[6]
Eurostat (2023), Sustainable Development in the European Union - Monitoring Report on 
Progress Towards the SDGs in an EU Context - 2023 Edition, 
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/15234730/16817772/KS-04-23-184-EN-
N.pdf/845a1782-998d-a767-b097-f22ebe93d422?version=2.0&t=1688373085450. 
[4]
Lafortune, G. et al. (2024), European Elections, Europe’s Future and the Sustainable 
Development Goals. Europe Sustainable Development Report 2023/24, SDSN, Paris and 
Dublin University. 
[5]
OECD (2024), Consumer Prices, OECD - Updated: 7 February 2024, OECD, Paris, 
https://www.oecd.org/sdd/prices-ppp/consumer-prices-oecd-updated-7-february-2024.htm 
(accessed on 19 February 2024). 
[9]
OECD (2024), Key Short-Term Economic Indicators: Industrial Production, OECD, Paris, 
https://stats.oecd.org/index.aspx?queryid=21758# (accessed on 19 February 2024). 
[11]
OECD (2024), OECD Economic Outlook, Interim Report February 2024: Strengthening the 
Foundations for Growth, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/0fd73462-en 
(accessed on 19 February 2024). 
[10]
OECD (2023), OECD Economic Outlook, Volume 2023 Issue 2, OECD Publishing, Paris, 
https://doi.org/10.1787/7a5f73ce-en. 
[8]



===== OCDE_2024_4_Snapshot_of_SDG_Implementation_in_Cities_and_Regions =====

page 17:
16    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Awareness-raising campaigns are the primary vehicle that local and regional 
governments deploy to achieve the SDGs 
Awareness-raising campaigns are the most common action adopted by cities and regions for the 
implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Almost two-thirds (62%) of 
responding local and regional governments stated they used awareness-raising campaigns, followed by a 
dedicated strategy or action plan for the SDGs (56%). The awareness-raising campaign already ranked 
top in the 2021 OECD-European Committee of the Regions (CoR) survey of local and regional 
governments (Box 2.1). In the new survey, more than half (51%) of respondents also reported using 
existing indicators or setting up new measurement systems to track progress on the SDGs. Less common 
are governance arrangements, such as setting up an internal committee or taskforce working horizontally 
across departments (34%) or a sustainable development council attached to a high-level decision maker 
(16%). Responses from territorial stakeholders reflect this pattern, with 59% engaging in awareness-raising 
activities and 44% having a dedicated SDG strategy or action plan in place (Figure 2.1).  
Figure 2.1. Which of these policies and actions has your city/region adopted for the implementation 
of the SDGs in your territory? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 177; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 61. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Other
A sustainable development council or similar attached to a high-level decision maker
An internal committee or other structure, working across services and horizontally
Use of existing indicators or new measurement systems to track progress on SDGs
A dedicated strategy or action plan for SDG implementation
Awareness-raising campaigns, either internal or external
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders
2 Snapshot of SDG implementation in 
cities and regions

page 18:
 17 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
Box 2.1. Key findings from the previous OECD-CoR survey (2021) on the SDGs as a framework 
for COVID-19 recovery in cities and regions 
From 10 May 2021 to 18 June 2021, the OECD and the European Committee of the Regions (CoR) 
conducted a survey on “The SDGs as a framework for COVID-19 recovery in cities and regions” across 
cities and regions. The survey targeted representatives of local and regional governments as well as 
other stakeholders at the local and regional levels (more than 140 respondents) to collect examples 
and evidence of their work on the 2030 Agenda in the COVID-19 recovery phase. The OECD and CoR 
conducted this second survey after a first on “The key contribution of cities and regions to sustainable 
development” between December 2018 and March 2019.1  
Overall, most local and regional governments (60%) responding to the survey considered the SDGs to 
be an appropriate framework for designing a holistic approach to the COVID-19 recovery. Forty percent 
of local and regional governments (LRGs) had already used the SDGs as a policy-making tool before 
the pandemic and started using them to shape their recovery strategies. Forty-four percent had not 
used the SDGs prior to the pandemic but were planning to do so. Sixty-eight percent of LRGs using the 
SDGs for recovery decided to do so to shape new plans, policies and strategies based on the 2030 
Agenda or to adapt existing ones. In terms of challenges, capacity (staff and skills) and funding gaps 
were the main bottlenecks preventing LRGs from using the SDGs to guide their recovery strategies for 
47% and 44% of respondents respectively. 
Among the measures put in place to advance the 2030 Agenda, indicators and measurement systems 
to track progress on the SDGs and awareness-raising campaigns were LRGs’ most widely adopted 
actions to advance the SDGs (41%). At the same time, political leadership played a key role. 
Thirty-eight percent of respondents considered it the most important success factor for implementing 
the SDGs. However, only half of surveyed LRGs and territorial stakeholders contributed to their national 
government’s Voluntary National Reviews (VNRs), suggesting potential for improving co-operation 
between different levels of government. 
In terms of key policy priorities for cities and regions in the COVID-19 recovery phase, almost 60% of 
them prioritised the efficient delivery of social and community services for disadvantaged groups and 
equitable access to education to reduce inequalities. A third of them considered switching from fossil 
fuels to zero-carbon sources and decarbonising the built environment as the two most promising 
strategies for transitioning to cleaner energy production. Almost half of cities and regions (49%) 
identified improving multi-modal transport, such as active and clean urban mobility, as a key priority for 
sustainable mobility and accessibility. Thirty-six percent of LRGs considered digitalisation as a top 
priority for the transition towards smarter cities and regions. Finally, 41% of cities and regions 
highlighted stakeholder engagement in local and regional policy making as the most effective 
contribution to the SDG to strengthen citizens’ trust in their governments. 
1. Detailed findings of the first OECD-CoR survey can be found in OECD (2020[1]). 
Source: OECD (2022[2]), “The Sustainable Development Goals as a framework for COVID-19 recovery in cities and regions”, 
https://doi.org/10.1787/6d25b59b-en.  
Political leadership at the local and regional levels is the most important success 
factor in SDG implementation for subnational governments 
Political leadership is considered the most relevant success factor for the localisation of the SDGs. Political 
leadership at the local and regional levels is the top success factor for both LRGs (76%) and territorial

page 19:
18    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
stakeholders (49%) who responded to this survey question. Over 50% of LRGs and more than 40% of 
territorial stakeholders also responded that peer-to-peer learning with other cities and regions and 
dedicated funding are instrumental for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Territorial stakeholders 
responded that citizen engagement (45%) and political leadership at the national level (34%) were 
important success factors for the localisation of the SDGs, i.e. higher shares than those reported by LRGs 
(38% and 28% respectively) (Figure 2.2). 
Figure 2.2. What contributes to the success of SDG implementation in your city/region? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 178; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 65. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
For most local and regional governments, a lack of financial resources is a key 
governance challenge for implementing the SDGs 
A majority of local and regional governments cited a lack of financial resources as a governance challenge 
for implementing the SDGs. The main challenge identified by local and regional governments (64% of 
respondents) was a lack of financial resources. In comparison, 52% of territorial stakeholders responded 
that a lack of financial resources was a governance challenge. LRGs also indicated that shifting political 
priorities (49%), a lack of vertical co-ordination (44%) and a lack of awareness (43%) were among the 
governance challenges they faced. Responses from territorial stakeholders differed slightly from LRG 
responses. Higher percentages of territorial stakeholders stated that shifting political priorities (60%), a 
lack of vertical co-ordination (55%), awareness (60%) and horizontal co-ordination (54%) were key 
governance challenges for implementing the 2030 Agenda. Both LRGs and territorial stakeholders 
considered data availability to be less of an obstacle. Twenty-four percent of local and regional 
governments and 37% of territorial stakeholders indicated that a lack of data represented a governance 
challenge (Figure 2.3). 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Political leadership at the
local/regional level
Peer-to-peer learning
with other cities and
regions
Dedicated funding/budget
High level of citizen
engagement
Political leadership at the
national level
Other
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 20:
 19 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
Figure 2.3. What are the governance challenges your city/region has faced or is currently facing in 
implementing the 2030 Agenda? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 176; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 65. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Local and regional governments track SDG progress using local, regional and 
national data 
A significant majority of LRGs use local, regional and national data to monitor their progress in achieving 
the SDGs. As mentioned above, more than half (51%) of LRGs reported tracking their SDG progress by 
using existing indicators or setting up new measurement systems. Seventy percent of respondents from 
LRGs use local and regional sources of data (official statistics) to track their SDG progress. 
Sixty-four percent use national data sources to do so. Additionally, 41% of LRG respondents use 
qualitative assessments (e.g. case studies, interviews, workshops) in tracking SDG progress. Fewer LRGs 
used private (21%), international (20%), open (18%) or unconventional (16%) sources of data. There are 
also considerable differences between the responses of LRGs and those of territorial stakeholders. 
Territorial stakeholders used qualitative (48%), international (36%), private (25%), open source (31%), and 
unconventional sources of data (22%) more frequently than local and regional governments did to track 
SDG progress. Conversely, territorial stakeholders used local and regional data sources much less 
frequently (53% compared to 70% among LRGs) (Figure 2.4).

page 21:
20    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Figure 2.4. What type of data do you use to track progress on the SDGs? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 176; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 65. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Ways forward 
Some possible ways forward for LRGs to harness the SDGs to shape sustainable development policies, 
track progress and secure sufficient resources could be to: 
• 
Leverage the SDGs to design sustainable urban and regional development policies. To 
advance sustainable development in their city or region, additional subnational governments could 
mainstream the SDGs in their policies and strategies for urban and sustainable development. The 
2030 Agenda provides a long-term vision for strategies, plans and policies with a clear and 
common milestone in 2030. If sustainable development strategies already exist, integrating the 
framework of the SDGs into them allows LRGs to overcome the challenges of sector-based 
planning and shift from a sectoral to a multi-sectoral and holistic approach in the design and 
implementation of local and regional development strategies and policies. It also enables them to 
prioritise their main sustainability targets while considering and managing the links, impacts and 
trade-offs concerning other SDGs (e.g. between climate and air quality, sustainable mobility and 
inequalities).  
• 
Boost political leadership for the SDGs. Given the importance of political leadership at the 
subnational level, with over 70% of LRGs reporting their contribution to the success of SDG 
implementation, local and regional governments could expand their outreach by actively engaging 
in national and international city networks, including through enabling peer-to-peer learning on the 
2030 Agenda. Such engagement could help leverage local and regional political leadership to 
increase the uptake of the SDGs as a policy-making tool and monitoring framework, but also to 
raise awareness among internal and external stakeholders about the 2030 Agenda. Furthermore, 
civil servants need to be vocal about the advantages of the SDGs as a policy-making framework 
and advocate for their implementation at the local level, thereby raising the awareness of their 
political leaders about the 2030 Agenda. 
• 
Set up localised SDG indicator frameworks or align existing indicator frameworks with the 
SDGs to track the progress of the 2030 Agenda. When starting to use indicators to track 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Local/regional
National
Qualitative
Private
International
Open source
Unconventional
Other
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 22:
 21 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
progress of the 2030 Agenda or further refining existing frameworks, LRGs should define their 
strategic goals for SDG monitoring, e.g. if they want to demonstrate progress against national or 
international averages, prioritise local policy decisions with reference to specific SDGs, assess the 
impact of existing policies against SDG targets and/or communicate with citizens and other 
stakeholders, which all involve both internal processes and capacity for collecting and analysing 
data and public-facing tools (e.g. an online portal or database) for public dissemination. In 
particular, LRGs should: 
o 
Assess the availability and sources of data and their capacity to collect, process, maintain and 
disseminate these on a regular basis. This could inform the selection of indicators based on 
data availability and political priorities.  
o 
Allocate dedicated funding and/or resources to ensure data are regularly processed, updated 
and shared. Many of these steps can be taken through targeted collaborations with universities, 
research institutes and the private sector, allowing LRGs to expand the range and types of data 
used for SDG monitoring and policy evaluation. The OECD, Sustainable Development 
Solutions Network (SDSN) and other organisations also offer tools for LRGs to align this work 
with existing harmonised, comparable approaches such as the OECD localised indicator 
framework for measuring the distance to achieving the SDGs in cities and regions. 
o 
Bridge the data gap, which will be essential for better monitoring given that 24% of LRGs 
responded that a lack of data remained a challenge for them and that sources beyond 
administrative data (e.g. qualitative, international, open and unconventional [social media, 
mobile tracking, etc.]) remain underexploited. This involves not only accessing these types of 
data, including through tools like artificial intelligence and relevant software but also making 
resources available and building capacity to incorporate them effectively into SDG monitoring 
and broader policy evaluation frameworks. 
o 
Set up a multi-level governance framework that allows for horizontal co-ordination within local 
or regional government departments and among territorial stakeholders to determine clear 
roles and responsibilities for collecting, validating and sharing data. LRGs should also 
co-ordinate vertically with other levels of government, assessing how their local monitoring 
framework contributes to or overlaps with existing national frameworks and initiatives, including 
country-level VNR processes.  
• 
Secure the necessary resources and capacity for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. 
LRGs should use the SDGs as a tool to allocate budgets to ensure the allocation of sufficient 
resources to implement the 2030 Agenda and foster continuity over time (OECD, 2022[3]). This 
exercise requires adequate local SDG monitoring as described in the previous recommendation in 
order to set targets, assess progress and prioritise policies based on specific SDGs. LRGs can 
also use the SDGs to attract investment, whether through innovative financial mechanisms like 
municipal or regional sustainability bonds, local investment crowdfunding platforms or contingency 
funds tied to achieving specific SDGs. They can also encourage private sector investment to fund 
urban development projects aligned with the SDGs through sustainable public procurement and 
public-private partnerships. Finally, LRGs can also participate in or learn from the growing number 
of peer-to-peer learning groups and international city networks that are seeking to address the lack 
of subnational financial resources for the SDGs. For example, the SDSN and the University of 
Pennsylvania, with the participation of the OECD, have convened the SDSN Global Commission 
for Urban SDG Finance, a commission to analyse barriers to urban SDG finance, evaluate existing 
proposals to improve access to urban finance and develop new strategies and mechanisms to 
better align the global financial architecture with urban needs (SDSN, 2023[4]).



===== OCDE_2024_5_The_Role_of_the_SDGs_for_COVID-19_Recovery_in_Cities_and_Regions =====

page 24:
 23 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Around half of surveyed LRGs use the SDGs in the COVID-19 recovery phase 
Around 39% of local and regional governments (LRGs) used the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) before the pandemic and are using them to address the COVID-19 recovery phase. The 
most reported response was using the SDGs before the pandemic and incorporating them in the recovery 
phase. Another quarter of respondents reported that they had not yet used the SDGs as a framework for 
COVID-19 recovery but were planning to do so. Approximately 23% of respondents reported not using the 
SDGs and not intending to incorporate them into the COVID-19 recovery phase. A small proportion of 
respondents (9%) seized the opportunity of the COVID-19 recovery phase to initiate work on the SDGs. 
Territorial stakeholders exhibited a similar pattern, as 39% had used the SDGs before the pandemic and 
continued to do so during the COVID-19 recovery phase. Among all territorial stakeholders, 29% intend to 
integrate the SDGs into the recovery phase, although they had not used them before (Figure 3.1).  
Figure 3.1. Are you using the SDGs as a framework for the COVID-19 recovery phase? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 175; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 62. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Yes, we used the SDGs before
and use them to address the
COVID-19 recovery
Not yet, but we are
planning to do so
No, and we have
no intention to do so
Yes, although we did not use the
SDGs before, we are using them
now to address the COVID-19
recovery
Other
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders
3 The role of the SDGs for COVID-19 
recovery in cities and regions

page 25:
24    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
The people dimension is the top post-COVID-19 challenge at the subnational 
level 
Among the 5 dimensions of the 2030 Agenda, 45% of LRGs consider the people dimension (SDGs 1-5) to 
be the most important post-COVID-19 challenge. Responses underline the importance of the SDGs on 
poverty, food, health, education and gender. These SDGs had already emerged as the most important 
challenges in the previous 2021 OECD-CoR survey (Box 2.1). The second-most important post-COVID-19 
challenge for LRGs is the prosperity dimension (SDGs 7-11), with 22% of responses. It includes the SDGs 
on energy, economic growth, innovation and infrastructure, inequality and sustainable cities. The planet 
dimension (SDGs 6 and 12-15), which comprises the SDGs on water, sustainable consumption and 
production, climate action and life on land and underwater, received a slightly lower priority (20%), followed 
by SDG 17 on partnerships (8%) and SDG 16 on peace, justice and strong institutions (5%) (Figure 3.2). 
The responses of territorial stakeholders are in line with those of local and regional governments. Among 
territorial stakeholders, 40% considered the people dimension to be the major post-COVID-19 challenge 
in their city or region, i.e. 5 percentage points less than among LRGs. The prosperity dimension ranked 
second for territorial stakeholders, albeit with a higher share than for LRGs (30% vs. 22%), followed by the 
planet and partnership dimensions (13% each) and the peace dimension (3%) (Figure 3.2). 
Figure 3.2. Where do you see the biggest post-COVID-19 challenges for your city/region with 
regard to the SDGs? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 173; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 60. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Ways forward 
Some possible ways forward for LRGs to use the SDGs to achieve their key policy priorities in the 
COVID-19 recovery phase are: 
• 
Align local or regional development strategies with the SDGs. Ensure that recovery plans are 
aligned with both the SDGs on the one hand and the local or regional development strategy on the 
other, while accounting for the specific needs and challenges of each city and region, including the 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
People dimension
(SDGs 1-5)
Prosperity dimension
(SDGs 7-11)
Planet dimension
(SDGs 6 and 12-15)
Partnership dimension
(SDG 17)
Peace dimension
(SDG 16)
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 26:
 25 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
varied impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The recovery phase should be leveraged as an 
opportunity to enhance resilience and preparedness for future shocks and crises. LRGs should 
periodically assess progress on the implementation of the recovery plan and local policy priorities, 
making necessary adjustments to strategies as conditions evolve. 
• 
Use SDG indicators to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Take advantage of SDG 
data and localised indicator frameworks to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic at the 
local level. Doing so could help guide local policy making during the COVID-19 recovery period, 
with a particular focus on the SDGs of the People dimension (SDGs 1-5) that have emerged as the 
most important post-COVID-19 challenges. The recovery period could provide an opportunity to 
set up new measurement systems for the SDGs if they do not yet exist or to align existing systems 
with harmonised and comparable local SDG indicator frameworks such as the OECD localised 
indicator framework for measuring distance to achieving the SDGs. 
• 
Promote policy coherence across levels of government. The COVID-19 recovery phase and 
the mid-point of the 2030 Agenda provide an opportunity to reassess the multi-level governance of 
the SDG implementation between cities, regions and national governments, reducing the risk of 
disjointed recovery efforts. This calls for aligning national, regional and local policies and strategies 
for the SDGs and defining clear roles and responsibilities for each level of government regarding 
SDG implementation. This also means assessing whether standardised reporting mechanisms 
across levels of government as well as harmonised legal frameworks are in place to facilitate the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda across levels of government.



===== OCDE_2024_6_Impact_of_Current_Crises_on_Key_Policy_Areas_and_SDGs =====

page 27:
26    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Cost of living 
The majority of local and regional governments (LRGs) have experienced a deterioration 
in living standards as a result of the cost-of-living crisis 
The cost-of-living crisis has eroded living standards in cities and regions. Among LRGs, 55% reported that 
living standards had worsened as a result of general price increases and that they expected further 
deterioration. An additional 28% of LRGs acknowledged a decline in living standards but did not predict a 
further decline. Consequently, over 80% of responding LRGs reported lower living standards within their 
territories due to inflationary pressures and the repercussions of Russia’s war of aggression against 
Ukraine. Only 18% of LRGs reported no change in living standards. However, within this group, 
13% anticipated a deterioration in living standards during the same year, while 5% did not expect any 
further impact on living standards within the next year (Figure 4.1). Territorial stakeholders’ responses 
mirror these patterns, with 72% experiencing a decrease in living standards in their cities or regions. Among 
them, 47% anticipated a further deterioration, while 25% did not expect any additional reduction in living 
standards.  
Figure 4.1. Due to the cost-of-living crisis, living standards in my city/region have… [answer] 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 176; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 64. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Already worsened and we expect
further deterioration of living standards
Already worsened but we do not expect
further reduction of living standards
Remained the same but we are
expecting living standards to worsen
throughout the year
Remained the same and we are not
expecting an impact on living standards
within the next year
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders
4 Impact of current crises on key 
policy areas and SDGs

page 28:
 27 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
The cost-of-living crisis has taken a toll on poverty and energy  
LRGs identified poverty (United Nations Sustainable Development Goal [SDG] 1) and energy (SDG 7) as 
the two policy areas most significantly affected by the rise in the cost of living. Seventy percent of 
responding LRGs indicated that they had identified an impact of the cost-of-living crisis on poverty and 
energy supply (Figure 4.2). Housing (SDG 11) is another policy area that has been particularly affected 
(58%). Inequalities (SDG 10) have been worsened by the rise in the cost of living in half of responding 
cities and regions, while 47% of respondents mentioned the impact on health and well-being (SDG 3). The 
remaining policy areas also felt the repercussions to some extent, with food security (SDG 2) and the 
labour market (SDG 8) both experiencing impacts reported by 38% of respondents. Climate (SDG 13) and 
mobility (SDG 9) were relatively less affected, with 28% and 22% of respondents respectively reporting an 
impact in these two policy areas. These findings underscore the need for targeted policy interventions to 
address the challenges arising from the cost-of-living crisis, particularly in the areas of poverty, energy, 
housing and inequalities. The responses from territorial stakeholders convey slightly different observations 
compared to those of the LRGs. While both LRGs and territorial stakeholders identified poverty as one of 
the 2 most affected areas, with 70% of LRGs and 71% of territorial stakeholders mentioning it, observations 
diverged when it came to the second most affected policy area. Seventy percent of territorial stakeholders 
registered an impact on health and well-being, compared to 47% among LRGs. Additionally, territorial 
stakeholders more often mentioned food security (60%) and inequalities (59%) compared to LRGs. 
Furthermore, climate (43%) emerged as a more prominent concern in the responses of territorial 
stakeholders. Conversely, energy (57%) and housing (54%) were less frequently identified as affected 
areas by territorial stakeholders (Figure 4.2). 
Figure 4.2. Which areas are the most affected by the increase in cost of living in your city/region? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 177; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 63. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Support measures for vulnerable groups are the most common response of LRGs to 
address increasing price levels  
Two-thirds of responding LRGs have implemented measures to support vulnerable groups in response to 
rising prices. Supporting the vulnerable population (SDG 1) is the most common measure implemented by 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Other
Mobility (SDGs 9 and 11)
Climate (SDG 13)
Food security (SDG 2)
Labour market (SDG 8)
Health and well-being (SDG 3)
Inequalities (SDG 10)
Housing (SDG 11)
Poverty (SDG 1)
Energy (SDG 7)
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 29:
28    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
LRGs. To save on electricity costs, 62% of LRGs have reduced the average temperature in public 
buildings, thereby cutting heating expenses (SDGs 7 and 13). Additionally, 46% of LRGs implemented 
measures to cut back on street lighting (SDG 7). One-third of LRGs directed their efforts towards assisting 
local businesses through support measures, such as subsidies or tax breaks (SDG 8). Other less common 
measures include subsidies for sustainable mobility (26%), such as offering discounts on public transport 
fares (SDGs 9 and 11), implementing temporary housing support schemes (19%) (SDG 11), enforcing 
price caps to bring down energy costs (17%) (SDG 7) and adopting measures to reduce food insecurity 
(14%), such as cutting taxes on food (SDG 2) (Figure 4.3). Territorial stakeholders echoed similar actions 
taken by LRGs, with 56% identifying support measures for vulnerable individuals as the most common 
response by their respective city or region to tackle rising prices. The second most common action 
identified by territorial stakeholders was the implementation of price caps to lower energy costs (32%). 
Reducing the average temperature in public buildings (30%) and support measures for local companies 
(29%) played a similarly important role. These findings highlight the proactive engagement of LRGs in 
taking diverse measures to address the challenges posed by rising prices. 
Figure 4.3. Which of the following measures has your city/region put in place to respond to 
increasing price levels? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of respondents: 172; number of responses from other territorial stakeholders: 63. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
The cost-of-living crisis affected LRGs’ human and financial resources for the SDGs 
The cost-of-living crisis has often strained LRGs’ human and financial resources to work on the SDGs. 
Among the survey respondents, 45% of LRGs indicated a decrease in the availability of funding for SDG 
projects, while 37% reported that the cost-of-living crisis had not affected their capacity and resources to 
work on the SDGs (Figure 4.4). Conversely, 20% of LRGs reported an increase in funding for SDG-related 
initiatives, possibly suggesting proactive efforts to address the crisis. In terms of human resources, 10% of 
LRGs experienced a drop in staff dedicated to SDGs, while 8% of LRGs observed an increase in the 
number of people working on SDG activities compared to the period before Russia’s war of aggression 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Other
Measures to reduce food insecurity (SDG 2)
Price caps to reduce energy costs for households (SDG 7)
Temporary housing support schemes (SDG 11)
Subsidies for sustainable mobility (SDGs 9 and 11)
Support measures for local companies (SDG 8)
Reduction of street lighting (SDGs 7 and 13)
Reduction of the average temperature in public buildings (SDGs 7 and 13)
Support measures for vulnerable populations (SDG 1)
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 30:
 29 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
against Ukraine. In addition, 3% of LRGs had to suspend or halt their SDG initiatives. Among territorial 
stakeholders, 56% reported a decrease in the availability of funding for SDG work, while 18% stated that 
the cost-of-living crisis had not affected their SDG pursuits. Similarly, 18% of territorial stakeholders cited 
an increase in funding for SDG projects and 15% noted an increase in the number of people working on 
the SDGs since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. Meanwhile, 13% experienced a decrease in staff 
working on the SDGs and 7% temporarily suspended their SDG efforts. These statistics illustrate the 
diverse and evolving strategies employed by different entities as they navigate the challenges associated 
with the current crisis while striving to achieve the SDGs. 
Figure 4.4. What impact does the cost-of-living crisis have on the human and financial capacity of 
your city/region to work on the SDGs? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 172; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 61. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Energy 
Achieving SDG 7 on Clean and affordable energy has gained greater prominence for 
most local and regional governments since the outbreak of Russia’s war of aggression 
against Ukraine  
SDG 7 has gained importance for local and regional governments since the start of Russia’s war of 
aggression against Ukraine. Twenty-three percent of responding local and regional governments reported 
it had become a top priority for them, with a further 57% saying it had increased in relevance (Figure 4.5). 
Only 18% of local and regional governments stated that SDG 7 had remained as relevant as before the 
war. Moreover, only 3% indicated that it had become less relevant since then. Responses from territorial 
stakeholders were different. Twenty-one percent found that SDG 7 had become a top priority in their city 
or region, while 30% reported that it had increased in relevance. For more than a third (37%), its 
achievement had stayed relevant and 11% stated that it had decreased in relevance since the outbreak of 
the war.  
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Now less funding
available to work on
the SDGs
Cost-of-living crisis
has not affected
capacity to work
on the SDGs
Funding for
 SDG-related projects
has been increased
Other
Number of people
working on SDGs is
now lower than before
the war in Ukraine
Number of people
working on SDGs
has increased
compared to before
the war in Ukraine
We have stopped or
put on standby our
work on the SDGs
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 31:
30    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Figure 4.5. Since the outbreak of the Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, the achievement 
of SDG 7 (Clean and affordable energy) in my city/region has… [answer] 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 176; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 63. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine has coincided with increases in the cost of 
electricity for over 70% of responding cities and regions  
Electricity costs have increased for over 70% of local and regional governments since the outbreak of the 
war in Ukraine. Half of local and regional governments responded that the cost of electricity had increased 
by up to 50% since the beginning of the Russian war in Ukraine. An additional 21% of responding LRGs 
stated it had increased by between 50% and 100% and the reported cost increase for 16% of LRGs 
exceeded 100%. Thirty-eight percent considered it had stayed relevant and 11% found it had decreased 
in relevance (Figure 4.6). Responses from LRGs in the European Union (a sample of 145 respondents) 
suggested a greater impact on electricity prices. In the European Union, 94% of LRG respondents reported 
that electricity costs had increased since the outbreak of the war. Among these, 51% reported costs 
increasing by up to 50%, 24% noted increases of between 50% and 100%, and 18% stated that electricity 
costs had gone up by over 100%. Among territorial stakeholders, the rise in electricity costs showed a 
slightly milder impact, with fewer respondents reporting increases compared to LRGs. Nearly 30% reported 
no changes in electricity prices, while 5% noted a decrease. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Become a top priority
Increased in relevance
Stayed as relevant
Decreased in relevance
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 32:
 31 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Figure 4.6. Since the outbreak of the Russian war in Ukraine, the cost of electricity in my 
city/region has… [answer] 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 175; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 62. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
LRGs and public energy providers have increased the share of renewables or reduced 
their dependence on imported energy since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine 
Growing pressures on the international energy market led 36% of cities and regions or their public energy 
provider to increase the share of renewable energy in their energy mix. Thirty-six percent reported that 
they reduced their dependence on imported energy. A further 34% of LRGs responded that the composition 
of their energy mix remained unchanged after the outbreak of the war. Sixteen percent of LRGs noted that 
they or their public energy provider had diversified the sourcing of energy. Only 9% of local and regional 
governments reported they had increased the share of non-renewable energy in their mix (Figure 4.7). The 
responses of territorial stakeholders show a similar pattern. Among them, 38% reported increasing their 
share of renewable energy and 33% responded that they had tried to reduce their dependence on imported 
energy. The most notable difference compared to LRGs relates to the diversification of energy sourcing. 
Among territorial stakeholders, 28% increased the diversification of their energy sources, which is 
12 percentage points higher than the corresponding figure among LRGs. Additionally, 11% of territorial 
stakeholders raised the proportion of non-renewable sources in their energy mix. Meanwhile, 31% of 
territorial stakeholders reported no alterations in their energy mix composition following the outbreak of the 
Russian war in Ukraine. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Increased by >100%
Increased by 50-100%
Increased by ≤ 50%
Not changed
Decreased
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 33:
32    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Figure 4.7. In response to the growing pressures on the international energy market, our 
city/region and public energy provider have… [answer] 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 166; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 64. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
About a third of local and regional governments say they have overall and sector-
specific consumption-based emissions targets but 40% say they do not 
More than half of LRGs have overall or sector-specific consumption-based emissions targets or both. 
Developing subnational consumption-based emissions estimates can be a valuable tool for cities and 
regions to help measure the emissions intricately tied to consumption patterns. In turn, it offers a metric to 
assess the effectiveness of demand-side mitigation policies (OECD, 2023[15]).1 Over one-third (35%) of 
local and regional governments responded that they had both overall consumption-based emission targets 
and sector-specific targets (e.g. in transport, construction) (Figure 4.8). A further 18% indicated that they 
had overarching consumption-based emission targets in place but no sectoral targets. Twenty-one percent 
of LRGs responded that they did not have consumption-based emissions targets but that they planned to 
implement them. In addition, 19% reported that they did not have such targets and did not plan to introduce 
them. Responses from territorial stakeholders indicate that in 23% of the cases, their city or region had 
both overall and sectoral consumption-based energy targets. Sixteen percent reported having only overall 
targets. Additionally, 26% indicated they did not yet but that setting such targets was planned. Finally, 25% 
responded that they did not have consumption-based targets and did not plan to implement them.  
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Increased renewable
energy
Tried to reduce the
dependence on imported
energy
Not changed the
composition
of the energy mix
Diversified the sourcing of
energy
Other
Increased non-renewable
energy
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 34:
 33 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
Figure 4.8. Does your city/region have consumption-based emission targets? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 170; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 61. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
To achieve SDG 7, local and regional governments are prioritising decarbonising fuel 
sources and improving energy efficiency in the built environment  
Decarbonising and improving energy efficiency in the built environment are the two top priorities of LRGs 
for SDG 7. When asked which strategies or policies could help their city or region best transition to cleaner 
energy production and achieve SDG 7, 44% of local and regional governments responded that 
decarbonisation – shifting from fossil fuels to zero-carbon sources of energy – would help the most. In 
addition, 37% responded improving energy efficiency in the built environment (Figure 4.9). Smaller 
percentages responded improvements in energy efficiency in transport (7%) and in industrial sectors (5%) 
or electrifying current uses of fossil fuels outside power generation (5%). Most territorial stakeholders 
(52%) also responded that decarbonising by shifting from fossil fuels to zero-carbon fuel sources would 
help their city or region in its energy transition to achieve SDG 7. In addition, 25% of territorial stakeholders 
indicated that improving building energy efficiency would help address these goals. Seven percent stated 
that energy efficiency in the industrial sector and electrifying the current uses of fossil fuels outside power 
generation would help transition to cleaner energy production and achieve SDG 7. Lastly, 15% selected 
policies and strategies aiming for greater energy efficiency in the transport sector as their top priority.  
Figure 4.9. Which of the following strategies or policies could help your city or region best 
transition to cleaner energy production and achieve SDG 7? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 170; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 61. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Yes, overall and sector-specific
No, but we are planning to
No, and we are not planning to
Yes, but not sectorial
Other
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Decarbonising: shifting from
fossil fuels to zero-carbon
sources
Improving energy efficiency in
the built environment
Improving energy efficiency in
the industry sector
Electrifying current uses
of fossil fuels outside of power
generation
Improving energy efficiency in
the transport sector
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 35:
34    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Food security  
SDG 2 Zero hunger has gained importance for LRGs but is not among their top priorities 
Although not a top priority for most LRGs, the relevance of SDG 2 has increased as a result of current 
inflation levels. Nineteen percent of LRGs mentioned it as one of their top priorities. Furthermore, 29% of 
LRGs reported an increase in the relevance of SDG 2 as a result of higher prices and named that SDG as 
a priority. In addition, 28% identified SDG 2 as one of their priorities but noted that there are more pressing 
issues for their local or regional government. At the same time, about a fourth of LRGs responding to the 
survey (24%) do not consider SDG 2 to be a priority for their government. The picture is slightly different 
for territorial actors, with 32% of them citing SDG 2 as one of their top priorities and another 43% citing it 
as a priority. For 21% of respondents, its relevance has even increased in light of current inflation levels, 
while 22% said that there are more pressing issues (Figure 4.10).  
Figure 4.10. To which extent is SDG 2 Zero hunger a priority for your local and regional 
government? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 174; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 63. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
LRGs have implemented a variety of emergency measures to address SDG 2 in light of 
more frequent disruptions in the global food supply chain 
Setting up food banks and food distributions for vulnerable populations are LRGs’ most common actions 
to target SDG 2. Almost half (46%) of responding LRGs indicated they have already implemented such 
measures to address SDG 2 (Figure 4.11). A distant second action LRGs took to address SDG 2 (with 
28% of responses) is to provide information to citizens about balanced diets and offer subsidies for specific 
nutritious foods. Safety standards and food subsidies also play a notable role. Twenty-two percent of LRGs 
have either enforced safety standards and informed consumers about regulations and/or implemented 
food subsidy programmes to close supply gaps and counterbalance a cost increase. Similarly, 21% of 
LRGs focus on reducing nutrient losses, pesticide and fertiliser use and antimicrobial resistance while 
promoting sustainable farming practices. In contrast, setting up public stockholding programmes to 
address supply chain disruptions was the least frequently used action (13%). This might imply that the 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
It is a priority and its relevance has
increased due to the current inflation
levels
It is a priority, but there are more
pressing issues for the local/regional
government
It is not a priority for the local/regional
government
It is among the top priorities
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 36:
 35 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
impact of ruptures in the global food supply chain has not yet warranted extreme emergency measures. 
Among territorial stakeholders, reducing nutrient losses, using pesticides and fertilisers, and addressing 
antimicrobial resistance while promoting sustainable farming practices garnered the highest share of 
responses (30%). Following closely, setting up food banks and food distributions for the vulnerable 
population accounted for 26% of responses, underscoring the significance of targeting vulnerable 
populations for territorial stakeholders. The remaining actions were distributed relatively evenly among 
territorial stakeholders, receiving between 16% and 21% of responses. 
Figure 4.11. In light of increasingly frequent ruptures in the global food supply chain due to the 
implications of the war in Ukraine and the consequences of climate change, how does your 
city/region address SDG 2? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 158; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 61. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
The most common action to achieve a sustainable food system is the promotion of local 
food production 
Nearly 60% of cities and regions participating in the survey are actively promoting local and regional food 
production. Local food production, i.e. urban agriculture projects and urban-rural partnerships, emerged 
as the most frequently mentioned measures to attain a sustainable food system (Figure 4.12). The 
promotion of a circular economy approach is similarly important for LRGs, as mentioned by 54% of 
respondents. In addition, cities and regions often organise awareness-raising events or campaigns to 
educate the population about diets and healthy nutrition (51%). More than a third (35%) of LRGs reported 
having incorporated food policies into their urban or regional development strategy, thus demonstrating an 
integrated approach to food systems. Only 4% of LRGs reported importing food predominantly from 
0
10
20
30
40
50
Set up public stockholding programmes to address supply chain disruption
Other
Reduce nutrient losses, use of pesticides, expand sustainable farming
Implement food subsidies to close supply gaps and balance cost increase
Enforce safety standards, informing consumers about regulations
Inform citizens about balanced diets, targeting nutritious food with subsidies
Set up food banks and food distributions for  vulnerable populations
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 37:
36    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
abroad. Territorial stakeholders also emphasised the importance of promoting local food production, with 
52% of them mentioning it as one of the measures implemented in their city or region to achieve 
sustainable food systems. Other important measures reported by stakeholders include promoting a circular 
economy approach to the local and regional food system (33%) and organising awareness-raising events 
to educate the population about diets and healthy nutrition. Despite some variation in their share of replies 
compared to LRGs, the top three responses were consistent between LRGs and territorial stakeholders. 
Figure 4.12. Which measures has your city/region put in place to achieve a sustainable food 
system? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 168; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 60. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Cities and regions mostly promote a circular economy approach to reduce food waste 
Promoting a circular economy approach and reusing surplus food are the two most common programmes 
implemented by LRGs to reduce food waste. Sixty percent of LRGs promote a circular economy approach 
with the objective of reducing food waste (Figure 4.13). About 46% of LRGs engage in reusing and 
redistributing surplus food through food banks, supermarket initiatives and transforming it into animal feed. 
Additionally, 45% of LRGs have implemented measures to prevent food waste throughout the food supply 
chain. Composting and anaerobic digestion for nutrient substance recovery from food waste are cited by 
36% of LRGs. Less frequently used measures include revalorising byproducts and transforming products 
to last longer (12%) as well as energy recovery from food waste (8%). Among territorial stakeholders, the 
most frequently cited response is the prevention of food waste throughout the food supply chain (44%), 
followed by the promotion of a circular economy approach (38%) and reusing and redistributing surplus 
food (32%). These findings align with the priority measures reported by LRGs. They underscore the 
multifaceted efforts undertaken by cities and regions to tackle food waste, effectively contributing to 
SDGs 2 and 12. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Predominantly import food from abroad
Other
Integrate food policies into the territorial development strategy
Raise awareness to educate the population about healthy nutrition
Promote a circular economy approach to the food system
Promote local/regional food production
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 38:
 37 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Figure 4.13. What programmes are being implemented in your city/region to reduce food waste 
(SDGs 2 and 12)? 
Share of respondents selecting the respective options, multiple responses possible 
Note: Number of responses from local and regional governments: 171; number of responses from territorial stakeholders: 63. 
Source: OECD-SDSN-CoR survey on the role of cities and regions for the SDGs in a changing landscape. 
Ways forward 
Some possible ways forward for LRGs to use the SDGs to respond to the cost-of-living crisis, transition to 
clean and affordable energy and achieve food security are: 
Cost of living 
•
Combat rising price levels. Considering that 55% of LRGs reported that living standards had
already deteriorated since the outbreak of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and that
they expected further deteriorations with impacts notably on SDGs related to poverty (SDG 1) and
inequality (SDG 10) as well as housing (SDG 11), there is a variety of measures that they can take
to respond to increasing price levels:
o
Provide the local population with resources and education on budgeting, saving and financial
management during times of economic stress, e.g. through financial literacy programmes
(SDGs 1, 4 and 10).
o
Improve housing affordability by developing targeted solutions for the most vulnerable, such
as temporary rent subsidies or eviction preventions to limit increases in housing costs and
ensure housing remains affordable for residents (SDGs 10 and 11).
o
Expand social safety net programmes and food assistance to cushion those in need (SDGs 1,
3 and 10).
o
Enhance public transportation options and affordability (e.g. temporary reduction in ticket
prices for those most in need) to counter the financial burden of increasing fuel prices and
incentivise the usage of low-carbon mobility options to help meet climate objectives (SDG 11).
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Other
Revalorising byproducts and transforming products to last longer
Energy recovery of food waste
Substance recovery of nutrients from food waste
Prevention of food waste throughout the food supply chain
Reusing and redistributing surplus food
Promotion of a circular economy approach
%
Local and regional governments
Other territorial stakeholders

page 39:
38    
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
  
Energy  
• 
Incentivise decarbonisation both in production and consumption. In order to contribute to 
SDG 7, LRGs need to encourage the decarbonisation of energy production, energy efficiency 
improvements in buildings, industry and transport sectors and the electrification of current fossil 
fuel use. Public-private partnerships and the issuance of municipal bonds and green, social and 
sustainable bonds could help finance respective measures to do so. In particular, LRGs should: 
o 
Negotiate with energy providers for a cleaner energy mix or establish a public utility. LRGs can 
negotiate long-term power purchase agreements with energy providers to finance the 
installation of greener sources of energy over the medium term. They can also harness group 
purchasing, such as Community Choice Aggregation or other models, to procure a greener mix 
of energy from a utility on behalf of citizens and the local government. Some LRGs have 
established publicly owned energy companies to invest directly in green energy generation and 
supply, which could help finance additional measures and incentives to decarbonise production 
and consumption. 
o 
Offer technical (e.g. public, accessible consultancy services) and financial support – grants, 
local tax rebates, soft loans in partnership with local banks and development banks – to small 
and medium-sized enterprises and/or lower-income households to incentivise building 
renovation measures.  
o 
Improve energy efficiency in the industrial and transport sectors and electrify current fossil fuel 
use outside power generation, e.g. through low-interest loans to industrial businesses for 
energy efficiency upgrades, setting up energy efficiency standards and the incentivisation of 
low-carbon transport through support programmes for electric vehicles.  
o 
Promote the generation of local energy for local consumption, e.g. by incentivising district 
heating or district cooling systems to foster more sustainable and energy-efficient alternatives 
compared to individual building-based heating and cooling solutions. 
o 
Foster behavioural change among relevant key territorial stakeholders through awareness-
raising (e.g. energy efficiency competitions between schools, municipal offices or social 
housing blocks, direct marketing to citizens); partnerships with local non-profits and territorial 
stakeholders to analyse local energy savings opportunities; and faster processes and 
permitting from urban planning authorities for new construction projects that propose to meet 
or exceed ambitious local energy efficiency standards.  
• 
Lead by example to decarbonise government-owned buildings and assets. Government-
owned and operated office buildings, social housing, infrastructure and vehicle fleets can be 
leveraged to achieve SDG 7 at the local level. LRGs, where possible, should: 
o 
Set ambitious energy performance standards and regulations for new construction. 
o 
Collect data on the energy performance of their building stock.  
o 
Develop and implement green procurement policies for new construction and refurbishment, 
which include a focus on whole life carbon and circularity.  
o 
Finance energy retrofits for buildings and infrastructure through green bonds and other 
instruments that link repayment to energy savings.  
o 
Progressively electrify LRG-owned transport fleets (personal, utility and maintenance vehicles). 
o 
In cases where cities own or have delegated authority over lighting infrastructure, retrofits to 
LED and smart management of lighting can generate significant savings and reduce their 
carbon dioxide footprint. Building and infrastructure retrofits can be conducted by local 
governments alone or via multi-stakeholder and public-private partnerships. On-site and local 
energy generation from renewable sources on LRG-owned property and large-scale,

page 40:
 39 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024  
  
longer-term solutions such as district heating and cooling can also be financed in this way and 
significantly contribute to decarbonisation efforts.  
Food  
• 
Promote sustainable food systems. There are several tools that could help cities and regions 
advance sustainable food systems (SDG 2), for example:  
o 
Support local and regional food production, e.g. promoting urban and peri-urban agriculture to 
increase local food production and facilitating the creation of community gardens and 
allotments. 
o 
Adopt a holistic approach to food systems by developing urban food strategies that intertwine 
food policy with urban development strategies, thus connecting the social and economic 
dimensions of food systems. 
o 
Promote the systematic knowledge sharing of cities’ actions and best practices for sustainable 
food systems whereby frontrunner cities (e.g. Milan, New York and Strasbourg, among others) 
can inspire other cities. 
o 
Enhance a circular transition in the food sector through public procurement requirements for 
canteens and food services, e.g. by applying life cycle and environmental criteria to contribute 
to sustainable, organic and responsible product supplies whilst minimising and, in the best 
case, avoiding negative environmental impacts and waste creation. 
o 
Foster circular food systems, e.g. systems for food waste recovery and composting, to close 
the nutrient loop and reduce landfill waste and by encouraging the use of sustainable and 
recyclable packaging materials. 
• 
Reduce food waste. Local and regional governments could implement several measures to 
incentivise the reduction of food waste within their territory (SDG 2):  
o 
Encourage a circular economy approach, e.g. by developing a comprehensive circular 
economy strategy, incentivising circular food supply chains and encouraging the purchase of 
goods and services from circular businesses.  
o 
Support and collaborate with organisations that rescue surplus food and distribute it to those 
in need, e.g. food banks and supermarket initiatives. Additionally, promote the use of 
technology-based solutions like food recovery applications that connect surplus food providers 
with recipients, minimising waste. 
o 
Set specific targets for cutting down food waste and implement regulations to hold businesses 
accountable for meeting these targets, e.g. require food-related businesses, such as 
restaurants and supermarkets, to report their food waste data regularly, thereby encouraging 
better waste management through increased transparency.  
o 
Initiate public awareness campaigns to educate citizens and the private sector about the 
environmental and economic impacts of food waste and work with local non-governmental 
organisations and businesses to reduce food waste collectively. Establishing a certification or 
recognition programme for businesses that actively work to reduce food waste can also 
incentivise customers to choose such products.



===== OCDE_2024_7_Annex_A_Examples_of_Policies_and_Actions_Implemented_by_Cities_and_Regions =====

page 42:
 41 
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Annex A. Examples of policies and actions 
implemented by cities and regions 
 Table A.1. Policies and actions put in place by cities and regions responding to the survey 
Type of action 
Example 
Policies and actions adopted for the 
implementation of the SDGs  
•
The city of Tallinn, Estonia, has aligned its strategic and operational targets, integrating 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) indicators to drive sustainable 
development. 
•
The city of Zagreb, Croatia, tracks its performance through SDG indicators that are part of the 
city’s urban development strategy’s annual reporting and are directly linked to the national 
development strategy. 
•
The autonomous province of Bolzano, Italy, has created an alliance for sustainability with 
research institutes and universities, fostering joint efforts in implementing the SDGs in the
province.
•
The region of Catalunya, Spain, has created the Catalonia 2030 Alliance, a partnership of 
public and private entities willing to work together to accelerate the achievement of the SDGs. 
•
The city of Manresa, Spain, has established a subsidy scheme for dissemination and training
on the 2030 Agenda in its municipality.
•
The city of Florence, Italy, has integrated the SDGs into its 2030 Agenda strategy. 
•
The state of Brandenburg, Germany, has established discussions fora within and for 
municipalities and civil society to advance the implementation of the SDGs in its territory. 
Types of data used to track progress on the 
SDGs 
•
The Central Denmark Region uses qualitative data through good practice examples that are 
showcased to stakeholders who want to raise awareness of the SDGs. 
•
The municipality of Speyer, Germany, conducts regular sustainability surveys with a 
representative sample of citizens. 
•
The city of Dresden, Germany, uses the data portal www.wegweiser-kommune.de provided by 
the Bertelsmann Stiftung.
•
The municipality of San Valentino in Abruzzo Citeriore, Italy, uses indicators provided by the 
association Rete dei Comuni Sostenibili (Network of Sustainable Municipalities). 
•
The municipality of Fundão, Portugal, uses data from the Municipal Sustainability Index
provided by Cesop Local (https://cesop-local.ucp.pt/).
•
The region of Catalunya, Spain, uses data provided by research centres, universities and 
relevant stakeholders.
Measures put in place to respond to 
increasing price levels  
•
The state of Brandenburg, Germany, has implemented support measures for municipalities to 
accommodate refugees, enhance social infrastructure (e.g. healthcare and schools) and 
provide assistance to specific groups (e.g. students).
•
The municipality of Pombal, Portugal, has established financial support programmes to assist 
families with newborns.
•
The city of Roeselare, Belgium, has implemented measures to provide support to local
associations.
•
The state of Saarland, Germany, has established the programme Das Saarland rückt
zusammen (The Saarland is moving closer together) covering measures across five areas: 
i) providing warm meals and safe places; ii) offering overnight accommodations; 
iii) strengthening voluntary work; iv) enhancing emergency support and counselling services; 
and v) addressing poverty among the elderly.
•
The city of Bratislava, Slovak Republic, has offered financial aid to schools, social services and
cultural facilities.

page 43:
42  
LOCALISING THE SDGS IN A CHANGING LANDSCAPE © OECD/SDSN 2024 
Type of action 
Example 
Responses to growing pressures on the 
international energy market 
•
The region of Häme, Finland, has initiated new projects and plans related to the use of 
renewable energy sources.
•
The administrative district of Gmina Solec Kujawski, Poland, has implemented policies aimed 
at lowering electricity and heat consumption.
•
The region of Catalunya, Spain, has created a new public energy agency. 
Measures to achieve a sustainable food 
system and reduce food waste 
•
The city of Helsinki, Finland, has expanded its co-operation with food banks and developed 
surplus food systems. 
•
The city of Oulu, Finland, has organised awareness-raising campaigns to educate youth on 
reducing food waste. 
•
The city of Bonn, Germany, has launched campaigns to raise awareness among the population 
about the benefits of consuming locally produced food.
•
The city of Thessaloniki, Greece, has established a local food council to develop sustainable 
food policies and systems, and it runs a Horizon Europe research and innovation programme 
called Food Trails, which focuses on urban agriculture initiatives.
•
The Marche region, Italy, is funding several projects aimed at assisting municipalities in 
tackling food waste. Additionally, the regional sustainable development strategy emphasises 
the adoption of agricultural practices that safeguard soils, waters and biological heritage in 
response to climate change.
•
The region of Catalunya, Spain, has established a regional food council that involves key 
stakeholders in the food system and engages experts to foster collaboration and sustainable
practices in the food sector.

